parameters in continuous-flow synthesis using microreactors, which can be controlled easily by changing the flow rate of reaction mixture, or the length and inner diameters of microreactors. The following equation (Equation (1)) is usually used to calculate the residence time in capillary microreactors:

where V is the volume of the microreactor, and VC is the total vo- lumetric flow rate of the reaction mixture, L is the length of the capil- lary microreactor, and di is the inner diameter of the microreactor. In this work, the variation of the polymerization time was realized by changing the length of the capillary microreactor while maintaining the same total volumetric flow rate (0.4 ml/min).

As is known, the prerequisite for the continuous-flow operation is that reactants can be well dissolved or dispersed in solvents in order to prohibit the channel clogging. We realized the rapid synthesis of poly (amic acid)s and the stable operation for the solution polymerization in the microreactor through controlling the solid content and the tem- perature. Table 2 lists the applied solid contents for five commercial dianhydrides in this polymerization process using the microreactor at

Keywords: Microreactor Continuous-flow synthesis Polyimide Molecular weight Thermal properties

The aforementioned research proved that for the continuous-flow polymerization in the microreactor system applied in this work, a proper reaction temperature (20 °C), a relatively long residence time (greater than19.6 min), and an appropriate molar ratio of dianhydride to diamine (1: 1) were conducive to the preparation of PAA with a relatively high molecular weight (greater than13.0 kg / mol) and a narrow molecular weight distribution (2.11–2.34). In addition, the re- activity of monomers and its solubility in the solvent directly aﬀect the polymerization degree of PAA, and the solubility is even more im- portant, which should be paid much attention to when carrying out the polymerization in a microreactor.

In conventional batch reactors, the temperature and the con- centrations of monomers and polymers are hard to reach homogenous mainly due to the large amount of heat released during the poly- merization process and the insuﬃcient transport properties of the batch reactors. Microreactors typically possess specific surface area at the order of magnitude of 103 m2 m−3, resulting in superior mass and heat transfer rates and thus precise control over the temperature and the concentration [54].

3.3. Eﬀect of the residence time on the polymerization performance in the microreactor

When conducting the polymerization in the microreactor, the molar ratio (r) of the dianhydride 6FDA to the diamine ODA or 6FODA was maintained at 1:1, and the solid content (S) of the reaction mixture did not excess 15%. 6FDA (1.28 mmol, 5.698 g) and ODA (1.28 mmol, 2.566 g) were dissolved in DMAc (25 ml), respectively. DMAc is one of the most widely utilized solvents to prepare PIs because it has good solubility for various monomers [42,43]. The dianhydride solution and the diamine solution were delivered into the microreactor system at the same volumetric flow rate of 0.2 ml/min by two syringe pumps (NE- 1800, New Era Pump System, Inc., United States). The whole micro- reactor system was immersed inside a water bath to maintain the set temperature (T) of 20 °C for the polymerization process. In particular, two pieces of enough long tubing as the feeding lines connecting to the T-micromixer were also immersed inside the water bath for preheating. The reaction mixture was collected after the polymerization in the microreactor and coated on a clean and dried glass plate with a 500 μm depth blade. The residual solvent was removed by heating the collected product at 60, 100, and 120 °C for 1 h at each temperature. PI films could be formed after the thermal imidization of PAAs in a muﬄe with a curing program of 150 °C for 1 h, 180 °C for 1 h, 220 °C for 1 h, 250 °C for 1 h and 270 °C for 4 h at a heating rate of 5 °C.

3.2. Eﬀects of the temperature and molar ratio on the polymerization performance in the microreactor

In summary, we proposed a simple and highly eﬃcient strategy to prepare polyimide precursors in continuous-flow microreactors. The number-average molecular weights of poly(amic acid)s from the two combinations of 6FDA-ODA and 6FDA-6FODA in the microreactor with the residence time of 19.6 min reached 13.0 kg / mol and 14.9 kg / mol, respectively. A PI film from 6FDA-ODA with Tg of 300 °C, Td5% more than 500 °C, the average transparency higher than 85% and the elon- gation at the breakage more than 6% was prepared. For this poly- merization in the microreactor, lower temperature, an optimal molar ratio of monomers and longer residence time were beneficial for the synthesis of PAAs with higher molecular weights. PAAs prepared in the microreactor showed comparable properties (e.g., desired molecular weights and controllable PDI) as those prepared with the batch pro- cessing, but the polymerization time could be significantly reduced from dozens of hours in batch reactors even to about 20 min in mi- croreactors. Reaction kinetics was discussed based on the relationship between the molecular weight and the residence time, and the poly- merization in the microreactor was found to follow the third-order re- action kinetics for the mononers transformation. The improvement of the PAA preparation in the microreactor could be further elaborated with the apparent reaction rate constant. Moreover, the third-order reaction kinetics was considered to be associated with the autocatalytic polymerization mechanism to some extent. Furthermore, this continuous-flow strategy for the rapid preparation of PAAs was extended with the use of various commercial dianhydrides including PMDA, 6FDA, BTDA, ODPA and CBDA. In particular, the number-average molecular weight of the PAA prepared by the combi- nation of BTDA and 6FODA could even reach 36.3 kg / mol at the re- sidence time of 19.6 min in the microreactor. This work demonstrated that microreactor technology could provide a promising platform to prepare polyimide precursors with high molecular weights and poly- imides with good properties.

