Although the difluoroalkylation reaction of styrene is homogeneous, it is less affected by interphase mass transfer resistance, inadequate mixing could still affect the reaction rate, thus effective and sufficient mixing is essential to study the intrinsic kinetics (Song et al., 2022). Due to the short molecular diffusion path in the microreactor, the fluid flow is laminar, where fluid mixing depends primarily on the channel configuration and flow velocity (Xu et al., 2023). In order to achieve the ideal mixing effect toward fully understanding of reaction kinetics and developing a more accurate reaction model, the influences of different flow velocities on the conversion of ST under the same residence time were studied, as shown in Fig. 2. It could be found that at low flow rates, the styrene conversion rate rises almost linearly with increasing flow velocity, indicating that the reaction kinetics are controlled by mass transfer. However, when the flow rate exceeds 0.25 mL/min, the styrene conversion rate would not increase further and remains nearly un- changed, implying that the reaction mixture has been sufficiently mixed. The reaction flow rate should be large enough to ensure an ideal mixture of tests under all experimental conditions. Consequently, the flow ve- locity of the reaction mixture was maintained at 0.3 mL/min for the subsequent experiments.

The conversion and product selectivity are sensitive to reaction temperature and residence time, thus the influences of temperature and residence time on reaction performance are investigated, as shown in

Furthermore, a conventional batch reaction was utilized to perform comparative experiment to assess the performance of the microreactor used. Each substance with a concentration corresponding to the optimal reaction conditions of the microreactor (nEBFA: nST = 1.5, nCuI: nST = 0.06, nPMDETA: nST = 1.5) was respectively added to the reaction tube and dissolved in DMSO, with total amount of 2 mL. The reaction mixture was then subjected to a constant temperature of 85 ◦C and stirred continuously for 12 h, without the use of an inert gas atmosphere. The yield of EDPB was determined by GC.

The volume flow rate of the reaction tube is calculated by Eq. (2):

To obtain accurate kinetic results, the conversion rates of ST were measured at various temperatures and residence times in the micro- reactor, as shown in Fig. 7. By substituting the conversion data into Eq. (16), the relationship between f(x) and τ at different temperatures could be obtained, as shown in Fig. 8(a). The slope (k) of the curve is the value of the reaction rate constant k at different reaction temperatures, and the value of k is summarized in Table 3. Fig. 8(b) shows the relationship curve between lnk and 1/RT.

The conversion of ST (xST) is a key parameter for analysis of reaction kinetics, which is calculated by Eq. (4). The yield Y of product EDPB is calculated by Eq. (5).

lution of ST conversion against CuI concentration and residence time were measured under the given reaction temperature, as shown in Fig. 9. By substituting the conversion rate data into Eq. (16), the relationship between f(x) and τ under different CuI molar ratios could be obtained, as shown in Fig. 10(a). The values of rate constant k at different CuI con- centrations could be calculated by the curve slope, it could be easily seen from Fig. 10(b) that the reaction rate constant increases almost linearly with the molar ratio of the catalyst.

where QA (mL/min) is the volume flow rate of the A phase inlet tube, and QB (mL/min) is the volume flow rate of the B phase inlet tube.

As shown in Fig. 11(a), the predicted conversion rate is in good agreement with the experimental data (δ ≤ 2.0 %), indicating the reli- ability of the kinetic model and the accuracy of the extensive experi- mental data obtained from the microreactor. As is well known, the reaction kinetic model is critically important for tailoring a desirable reactor, as it could predict the concentration change of ST at different residence times. It could be clearly found from Fig. 11(b) that the model prediction values match experimental data well, indicating the excellent predicting performance of the present model.

In recent years, flow chemistry technique has revolutionized the research and application of fluoroalkylation. This advancement is largely attributed to the use of microreactor, which has small channel diameter and high specific surface area. These characteristics enable precise control of reaction condition, thereby greatly improving mass and heat transfer performance. Meanwhile, microreactors could reduce reagent consumption, improve product quality and reaction efficiency and ensure the safety of chemical reactions (Mu et al., 2024; Russo et al., 2019; Schwolow et al., 2016). Spennacchio et al. (Spennacchio et al.,

oalkylation reaction, a series of controlled experiments were conducted to investigate the effects of five key parameters: molar ratio of reactants (nEBFA:nST), amount of catalyst (nCuI:nST), amount of base (nPMDETA:nST), reaction temperature (T) and residence time (τ) on the product EDPB. This method aimed to establish a correlation between these parameters and both the yield of EDPB and the conversion of ST, and to ensure the validity and scientificity of the experimental design.

Fluoroalkylation compounds are vital in pharmaceutical and agricultural chemistry. However, conventional batch reactor usually suffers from poor mass transfer and long reaction times. Comparatively, microreactors offer substantial improvement in mass and heat transfer for high-efficient production. Especially, it could innovate the original batch operation mode into continuous production. In this work, a highly efficient continuous flow system is constructed for styrene difluoroalkylation using CuI as a catalyst and BrCF2CO2Et as fluorinating re- agent. The influences of reactant ratios, catalyst content, alkali amount, reaction temperature and residence time on reaction performance were investigated systematically. Under optimal conditions, 80% yield was gained in only 0.5 h. The reaction time required is significantly shortened. Meanwhile, the usage of catalyst could also be reduced. Moreover, the kinetics of the styrene difluoroalkylation reaction in microreactor were studied, and the rate constant, activation energy and pre-exponential factor were obtained according to reaction kinetic model.

where τ is the residence time and V is the volume of the microchannel.

In addition, the yield of difluoroalkylation of styrene was also compared with the results of similar reactions in batch reactors reported in the literature, as shown in Table 2. Lai et al.(Lai et al., 2017) use a batch reactor and conduct a reaction under N2 protection at 60 ◦C for 46 h, and the target product was obtained only with a 45 % yield. Similarly, under an argon atmosphere, Wang et al.(Wang et al., 2017) conducted the reaction at 80 ◦C for 12 h, affording a 77 % yield. On the contrary, in the absence of inert gas protection, the desired product was observed with a yield of 65 % after 24 h at 80 ◦C condition in the study of Zhang et al(Zhang et al., 2015). In this experiment, the yield after 12 h in the reaction tube at 85 ◦C was only 34 %. Compared to batch reactor, microreactor offers the advantages of closed systems and internal sta- bility, making them less susceptible to intrusion by media such as water and air. This effectively eliminates the impact of oxygen on free radical reactions. Therefore, the reaction in microreactor has no requirement for inert gas protection, which reduces catalyst usage and shortens residence time. Remarkably, microreactor achieves an 80 % product yield and meanwhile offers notable advantage in product quality. Because the microreactors, utilizing continuous flow operations,

3.2.5. Effects of temperature and residence time on reaction performance

not enough EBFA to further participate in the reaction, thereby resulting in a low yield. With the increase of molar amount of EBFA, styrene is progressively transformed, accordingly leading to an increase in product yield. It was found that the optimal yield is achieved when the molar ratio of EBFA to ST reaches 1.5. Beyond this ratio, further increasing molar ratio would not significantly affect the yield, which becomes nearly leveled off, the selectivity of the reaction would also remain almost unchanged. This could be attributed to the reaction kinetics, as the maximum frequency of collisions between reactant molecules has been reached. Accordingly, the subsequent experiments were conducted with the molar ratio of EBFA to ST as 1.5.

3.3. Comparison of the difluoroalkylation reaction in the microreactor and the batch reactor

Difluoroalkylation of styrene in the continuous-flow microreactor: Process performance and Reaction kinetics

The microreaction system setup is shown in Fig. 1, it consists of three main units: feed unit, reaction unit and quenching unit. The two re- actants ST and EBFA were fed separately. Given that EBFA could un- dergo transformation in alkaline conditions (Wang et al., 2017), ST, catalyst CuI and the alkaline ligand PMDETA were dissolved in DMSO and stirred by a magnetic stirring device (WM-1, INNOTEG) at room temperature to obtain solution A. EBFA was dissolved in DMSO and stirred by a magnetic stirring device (WM-1, INNOTEG) at room tem- perature to obtain solution B. Both solutions A and B were delivered by the syringe pumps (PHD 4400, Harvard Apparatus) under the same flow rates and preheated to reaction temperature in the 2.5 m capillary coil (PTFE, ϕ 1.587 × 1 mm). Later, the two reactive solutions were mixed in a T-type micromixer (PTFE) and then flowed into a capillary coil (PTFE, ϕ 1.587 × 1 mm) for reaction. The reaction time was controlled by using reaction coils of varying lengths. The preheating coil, the mixer and the reaction coil were immersed in an oil bath to guarantee as constant re- action temperature as possible. Under all experimental conditions, the monitoring thermocouple thermometer (YET-640, Kaipusen) showed that the inlet temperatures were the same as that of the oil bath, and the temperature changes of the outlets of the preheating loop, the

To verify the kinetic model, a series of experiments were performed at various initial concentrations of ST. The conversion rate of ST was used to compare the deviation between the experimental data (xe) and the predicted results (xm). The accuracy of the kinetic equation is assessed by the mean relative error δ, which is determined by the following calculation: