The liquid flow rate affects the hydrodynamics and gas– liquid–solid interaction, and thus the hydrogenation performance of the reactor.41 The effect of the liquid flow rate on the hydrogenation performance of FUR is summarized in Fig. 6. From Fig. 6(a), it was concluded that the yield of FA gradually decreased with the increase of the liquid flow rate. When FUR is not completely hydrogenated, a large amount of acetal (by-product) is generated with the increase of the liquid flow rate from 0.3 to 0.5 mL min−1. The maximum yield of FA was 99.6% at 0.1 MPa and 0.1 mL min−1. Also, the yield of FA could be improved when the pressure was 0.6 MPa, and the FA yield could reach 100% at a liquid flow rate of 0.6 mL min−1 as shown in Fig. 6(b). In Fig. 6(c), when ethyl acetate was used as the solvent, the yield of FA tended to increase and then decrease with the increase of the liquid flow rate. The maximum FA yield value of 99.9% was obtained at 0.6 mL min−1. The main reason is the decreased residence time and elevated liquid hold-up caused by the increase of the liquid flow rate from 0.2 to 0.6 mL min−1, which reduces the occurrence of the side reaction of hydrogenation of FA to 2-MF and enhances the external mass transfer. When the liquid flow rate is further increased from 0.6 to 1.0 mL min−1, the influence of the mean residence time is significant, resulting in the insufficient hydrogenation of FUR in μPBRs. To achieve a rapid synthesis of FA, ethyl acetate is a more suitable solvent compared to isopropanol.

a decrease in the FA yield, in particular at a high gas flow rate. It is mainly attributed that an increase in the gas flow rate decreases the mean residence time, leading to the insufficient contact among the gas–liquid–solid catalysts. Based on the experimental results, a gas flow rate of 20 sccm was chosen as the optimized condition for the subsequent experiments.

The gas flow rate of hydrogen affects the gas–liquid–solid mass transfer performance and mean residence time for the hydrogenation process in the microreactor.40 As can be seen in Fig. 5(a) and (b), the increase in the gas flow rate leads to

where D is the inner diameter of the reactor, L is the length of the reactor, ε is the porosity of the μPBR and its value is 0.37, h is the liquid holdup, which can be determined from the literature,48 and Q is the liquid flow rate. Table 5 shows the catalytic performance and STY of FUR hydrogenation to FA in the conventional stirred tank reactor (STR), packed bed reactor (PBR), H-Cube mini reactor, and micropacked bed reactor (μPBR). Compared with the STR equipped with a Cu/SiO2 catalyst, the μPBR was able to obtain high FA yields under mild conditions. Due to the excellent reactor properties of the μPBR, the FA yield can reach 99.6% with a short reaction time (65 s) at low temperature (80 °C) and low pressure (0.6 MPa) compared to the other reactors. Moreover, the maximum STY of the μPBR (0.51) is close to that of the H-Cube mini reactor (0.59), which is one to two orders of magnitude higher than those of the conventional STR and PBR. But the H-Cube mini reactor needs higher pressure (5 MPa) with respect to the μPBR (0.6 MPa). At the same time, the high cost of Ru-based catalysts used in the H-Cube mini reactor limits its industrial scale-up. For the CTH of FUR, the μPBR also provides an excellent STY at lower temperature and pressure as well as a larger STY in comparison to the conventional STR. In summary, both molecular hydrogenation and CTH of FUR can be performed

G Gas flow rate, sccm h Liquid holdup of the micropacked bed reactor k′ Reaction rate constant in eqn (7), mol0.73 L−0.73

reaction are evaluated at different temperatures. Then the effects of solvent, pressure, gas and liquid flow

to 100 °C, thus promoting the formation of FA. On the other hand, the hydrogenolysis product 2-MF is formed with further increase of temperature ranging from 100 to 110 °C. The pressure was positively correlated with the FA yield, and the highest FA yield was 96.3% when the pressure was 3.1 MPa (entries 3–5). It can be noted that the addition of gas can significantly increase the yield of FA. This is because the perturbation of N2 intensifies the liquid–solid mass transfer process and thus increases the reaction rate.44 And when the gas flow rate was further increased, the effect of the gas flow rate on the FA yield was not significant (entries 2, 6 and 7). Meanwhile, the hydrogen donor isopropanol exhibited better performance compared to 2-butanol, which was consistent with the phenomenon observed by Zhu et al.45 A possible reason for this phenomenon is that isopropanol has a lower viscosity (0.339 mPa s) compared to 2-butanol (0.680 mPa s) under the same conditions, resulting in a smaller mass transfer resistance.

Inlet FUR concentration/mol L−1 Solvent X/% YFA/% Yacetal by-product yield/%

In order to compare the performance of different reactors, the space time yield (STY) was calculated by means of eqn (3):23,24,46

where k′ is the reaction rate constant, α is the reaction order of CA, and β is the reaction order of P. Firstly, the residence time (τ) and hydrogen pressure were kept constant to determine the reaction order of CA. In this regard, eqn (7) can be written as eqn (8). Considering the boundary conditions (t = 0, CA = CA0; t = τ, CA = CA0(1 − X/100)), eqn (9) can be obtained as follows:

L Characteristic length of catalyst particles, m mFA Mass of furfuryl alcohol, kg P Hydrogen pressure, MPa Q Liquid flow rate, mL min−1

T Reaction temperature, °C VR Reactor volume, L X Conversion of furfural Y Yield of furfuryl alcohol τ Liquid residence time, min ε Porosity of the reactor

from 0.08 mol L−1 to 0.29 mol L−1, the conversion of FA decreased significantly. By fitting the data, α was 0.27. Then, the reaction order β can be obtained from eqn (10). And the reaction order for hydrogen pressure was 0.45 as shown in Fig. 8(b).

D Inner diameter of the micropacked bed reactor, m Deff Hydrogen effective diffusion coefficient in the catalyst, m2 s−1

The schematic overview of the FUR hydrogenation reaction is shown in Fig.1. For the hydrogenation process, FUR solution in the liquid phase and hydrogen in the gas phase are delivered using a plunger pump (Beijing Oushisheng Technology, Co., Ltd.) and a gas mass flow controller (Beijing Sevenstar Electronics Co., Ltd.), respectively. For the CTH process, the gas is switched to nitrogen through the ball valve. After preheating by a coil, gas–liquid–solid or liquid– solid phases came into contact and reacted in a micropacked bed reactor with catalyst particles. For the process optimization section, reactors with a volume of 2.94 mL, an inner diameter of 3.87 mm, an outer diameter of 6.4 mm, and a length of 250 mm were applied. For the kinetic study section, the same volume (1.2 mL), with different inner diameters (3.87, 4.35, and 5.35 mm), and different reactor lengths (102, 79, and 53.5 mm) of the reactor were used. The temperature and pressure of the reaction were controlled by the oil bath and back pressure regulator, respectively. The outlet sample was collected every three times of the liquid residence time and then analyzed by gas chromatography (GC).

Reactor Catalyst Reaction time/h T/°C P/MPa CFUR/mol L−1 YFA/% STY/kg L−1 h−1

Reaction conditions: 0.2 mol L−1 FUR, 80 °C, 0.1 MPa, 0.2 mL min−1, 20 sccm.

Gas molecular hydrogen is often used in catalytic hydrogenation reactions, which has the problem of higher costs and safety.37 As a result, the catalytic transfer hydrogenation (CTH) process, as a typical liquid–solid reaction process, shows some advantages in conventional STRs compared to molecular hydrogen.43 Here, the results for CTH of FUR to FA in μPBRs with Cu/SiO2 are shown in Table 4. It can be seen from Table 4 (entries 1–3) that the yield of FA first increases and then decreases with the increase of temperature. On the one hand, the reaction rate accelerates with the increase of temperature ranging from 90

reaction time.15 Catalytic transfer hydrogenation (CTH) is viewed as a promising path for the liquid phase hydrogenation reaction. Cu/C–SO3H catalysts were demonstrated to prepare FA from FUR through CTH in a batch reactor.7 The FA yield was 99.99% at 150 °C and 4 MPa N2 with a reaction time of 5 h. Alumina also proved to be an effective catalyst for the hydrogenation of FUR to FA using secondary alcohols as solvents due to its active Lewis acid sites. The yield of FA was higher than 90% at 150 °C with 6 h reaction time in a batch reactor.16 Yang et al.17 prepared a novel oxygen-vacant Mn3O4 catalyst for CTH of FUR. A high FA yield (99%) was obtained at 220 °C with 4 h reaction time in isopropanol. Above all, Cu-based catalysts showed preferable selectivity for FA in STRs, but the batch operation and long reaction time restricted the industrial application for FUR hydrogenation to FA. A continuous flow reactor is considered a continuous, efficient, and safe technology due to its small equipment size and better transport performance.18 Continuous flow technology can precisely control the reaction process and time, which is advantageous in the conversion of biomass platform molecules into high value-added chemicals.19 Wang et al.20 used a Ni/C catalyst to compare the reaction performance of FUR hydrogenation between batch and continuous reactor modes. Based on the method of molecular hydrogenation, experimental results showed that 2-MF was generated (yield = 66%) in STRs at 200 °C and 3 MPa. FA (yield = 38%) and THFA (yield = 20%) could be produced in continuous flow reactors at 150 °C and 5 MPa. Garcia-Olmo et al.21 investigated the selectivity and stability of FUR hydrogenation in an H-Cube mini flow reactor with a Ru/C catalyst. The results showed that the yield of FA was about 85% at 90 °C and 5 MPa within 34 s under the continuous flow process. However, high temperature (up to 230 °C) and high pressure (3–5 MPa) are still required for the hydrogenation of FUR to FA in continuous flow reactors. The continuous flow reactors for the FUR hydrogenation to FA multiphase process need to be further designed and optimized. Recently, micropacked bed reactors (μPBRs), as a new type of continuous flow reactor, have been applied in biomass conversion processes, such as levulinic acid hydrogenation,22

The solvent affects the external mass transfer performance between the gas–liquid–solid phase, the solubility of hydrogen, and the adsorption mechanism of the solvent molecules on the active sites, leading to variations in the hydrogenation reaction performance.26,28,33 Solvents for FUR hydrogenation are mainly divided into protonic solvents (e.g. methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, 2-butanol, etc.) and aprotic organic solvents (e.g. ethyl acetate and toluene).20 The effects of solvents on the hydrogenation performance of FUR are shown in Table 2. For the protonic solvents, isopropanol gave the best FUR conversion performance (100%) and FA yield (99.5%). With respect to methanol and ethanol, the main product was acetal via the reaction between FUR and the