This method provides reliable data in steady state oper- ation. However, it is less satisfactory for very small volumes of precursor and may be too time-consuming for rapid searching of product properties for new mate- rials and varying process conditions. The search can be made more efficient by using small-scale reactors with short run time. An idea is to have a small volume of precursor vapor converted to particles, ideally under conditions of uniform temperature, concentration and residence time. In the present work, a nanoparticle microreactor (NPMR) was developed which can accept a micro- liter of precursor and complete a run within a minute. Figure 1 shows the concept of the microreactor. The liquid precursor is injected into an evaporator, 1 cm3

Nanoparticle microreactor system

A principal goal of our study was to compare the microreactor data with results for larger scale systems. For this purpose, the primary particle sizes were com- pared with results of Kirkbir and Komiyama (1987) whose tube size was larger, 22.2 mm in diameter, with the precursor vapor supplied steadily to the reactor by bubbling helium through a precursor reservoir. Figure 12 shows the comparison for TTIP concentra- tions near 1.0 mol% with reactor temperatures ranging from 300◦C to 700◦C. The concentration indicated

Figure 11. Effect of carrier gas flow rate on particle size for 4 mm reaction tube with sheath gas (reactor temperature: 700◦C; TTIP concentration: 1 mol%). The residence time, τ (reactor volume/volumetric flow rate at 700◦C), varied from 0.35 to 1.4 s. There was no effect of residence time on primary particle size.

Operating parameter For 2 mm For 4 mm tube tube with sheath gas TTIP conc. (mol%) 7.0 1.0–7.0 N2 carrier flow rate 34.0 17.0–68.0 (cm3/min) N2 sheath flow rate 0. 51.0–204.0 (cm3/min) Space time at STP (s) 2.2 1.1–4.4 Reactor temp. (◦C) 500–1000 300–700

Figure 2 shows a schematic diagram of the microreac- tor system which consists of an oxygen trap (Hewlett- Packard, Model HP3150-0528), a drying column (Hammond, Model 27066) a carrier gas preheater, an evaporator, a tubular furnace (Thermolyne, Model 21100) and a particle collector. The preheater is a pyrex cylinder wrapped with a heating coil, with a volume of 100 cm3 selected to give a residence time of 3 min at the carrier gas rate of 34 cm3/min. The carrier gas is heated by the preheater to a temperature higher by about 20◦C than the evaporation temperature to protect the vapor generated in the evaporator from being condensed by the incoming carrier gas. The evaporator is a pyrex tube with stopcocks at both ends, measuring 0.5 cm I.D. and 5 cm long. A septum is placed in the center for injection of liquid precursor by a syringe. The evaporator was

Comparison with results from a steady flow larger scale system

Figure 2. Schematic drawing of nanoparticle microreactor system.

In aerosol reactor design, the main goal is to produce particles with desired properties – primary particle size, aggregate size, crystalline state and primary par- ticle bond energies. It is generally not possible to predict particle properties from first principles alone, and pilot scale studies and modeling are important in scale-up. We have introduced the concept of a small- scale ‘microreactor' capable of generating particle samples on TEM grids which are easily examined for particle properties. Totestthisconcept,wedesignedaminiaturizedreac- tor capable of producing TiO2 nanoparticles from about 1 µl of TTIP in a 1 min run time. With a 2 mm reac- tion tube, a considerable fraction of the TTIP was con- sumed at the wall by surface reaction, resulting in very small particles. For a 4 mm tube with sheath gas, the surface reaction was reduced and the particle size was comparable to that reported earlier by other investiga- tors for steady flow experiments with a 22.2 mm tube. Increasing the gas flow rate by four times had little effectonparticlesize,implyingthatparticlegrowthhad been completed within one-fourth of the tube length, also in agreement with previous work using a larger reactor. Depending on TTIP concentration and reactor temperature, particles showed a bimodal size distribu- tion probably due to a two-stage nucleation. The microreactor has potential for the rapid assem- bly of large databases and is adaptable to combinato- rial discovery of nanoparticles with novel properties. Results compare well over some ranges with a larger scale reactor. Still much work remains to be done to make the microreactor a reliable tool for predicting par- ticle properties of larger scale systems. Accounting for axial dispersion requires further study. Rapid analysis of TEM grid particle deposits is another challenge.

The nanoparticle microreactor (NPMR) is a new concept that we have introduced to describe a very small-scale system capable of converting an aerosol precursor to solid particles. The liquid precursor of about 1 µl is injected by a syringe through a septum into a tubular evaporator of 1.0 cm3 in volume with stopcocks at both ends. The evaporator has been preheated by a heating tape to a temperature sufficiently high for vaporization to occur in half a minute. By opening the stopcocks, the vaporized precursor is transported by a carrier gas stream into a quartz tube which is mounted along the axis of a tubular furnace. The nanoparticle aggregates produced in the reactor are sampled by deposition on an electron micrograph grid at the reactor exit. The NPMR was applied first to the synthesis of TiO2 particles by thermal decomposition of titanium tetraisopropoxide (TTIP) in a nitrogen carrier gas, with TTIP concentrations varying from 1.0 to 7.0 mol% or 2.35 × 10−6 to 1.65 × 10−5 in TiO2 volume loading, and decomposition temperatures from 300◦C to 1000◦C. Studies were made with a 2 mm reaction tube and a 4 mm tube with sheath gas. With the 2 mm tube, a considerable fraction of the TTIP precursor was consumed at the wall by surface reaction, resulting in very small particles. With the 4 mm tube, the primary particle size was comparable to that reported in the literature for steady flow experiments using a 22.2 mm tube. Primary particle sizes ranged from 200 to 400 nm. Depending on TTIP concentration and reactor temperature, the particles exhibited a bimodal size distribution, probably due to a two-stage nucleation. A fourfold increase in the gas flow rate had little effect on particle size, indicating that particle growth ended early, within one-fourth the tube length. Residence time in the reactor was between 0.35 and 1.4 s, and total run time about 1 min. The NPMR has potential for rapid assem- bly of large databases and is adaptable to combinatorial discovery of nanoparticles with novel properties. Design requirements for an ‘ideal' aerosol microreactor are discussed briefly.

