residence times. The effect of gas and liquid flow rates on the product concentration was investigated at a fixed gas– liquid volume flow rate ratio (64.7 : 1). As shown in Fig. 6, with increasing residence time, the concentration of benzaldehyde increases. Furthermore, as the liquid flow rate increased from 1 to 1.6 ml min−1, the reaction rate remained nearly unchanged. This suggests that the impact of liquid and gas flow rates (constant gas–liquid flow rate ratio) can be negligible within the scope of the experiments. The same phenomenon is also found under higher pressure (ESI† Fig. S3), where the increased benzaldehyde yield can be obtained. In addition to accelerating gas–liquid mass transfer, another major advantage of the micro-packed bed reactor is that individual sets of reaction conditions can be screened rapidly, not only for process optimization, but also for kinetics investigation. Furthermore, all the subsequent kinetics experiments were studied efficiently under optimized experimental conditions.

According to Henry's law, the total gas pressure could affect the oxygen concentration in the reaction system when the constant gas oxygen concentration (9% O2 in N2) is used. Fig. 3B shows the trend in the yield of benzaldehyde for different total gas pressure in the micro-packed bed reactor with a residence time of 10 and 20 s. In general, the yield increases with increasing total pressure. Since pressurization can speed up the dissolution of oxygen into the solution, high total gas pressure is more favourable to aerobic oxidation. Effect of reagent concentration. The effect of the molar ratio of O2 to benzyl alcohol was investigated at 40 °C and 35 bar (9% O2 in N2). As shown in Fig. 4, with an increasing molar ratio, the conversion of benzyl alcohol remained nearly unchanged, which indicated that the influence of gas–liquid mass transfer can be ignored during the reaction process. It

The homogeneous solution of PhCH2OH and the Cu/TEMPO catalyst system were dissolved in acetonitrile at room temperature and then protected by nitrogen. The schematic overview of this microreactor system is shown in Fig. 1. The liquid was delivered by a metering pump (Eldex Laboratories, USA) at the flow rate range of 0.01–10 mL min−1. The O2–N2 gas mixture from the regulated cylinder was fed via a thermal mass flow controller (Bronkhorst Ltd., UK) at the flow rate range of 0–200 sccm, where sccm denotes mL min−1 at the standard condition of 0 °C and 1 atm. The outlet of the mass flow controller was connected to a safety valve to automatically release the gas from the tubing when the pressure exceeded 150 bar. The gas and liquid were premixed in a T-mixer and then entered the micro-packed bed (the inner diameter 4.35 mm and outer diameter 6.35 mm) packed with the inert glass beads. Glass beads with a size of 300–350 μm were loaded (void fraction of 37%) in order to reduce the gas molecular diffusion length and improve the mass transfer performance. The outlet of the packed bed was connected to a back-pressure regulator to control the system pressure.

Ref. Reactor type pO2/bar [PhCH2OH]/M T/°C Space–time yielda/mol h−1 m−3 Relative space–time yield

in the micro-packed bed reactor, which is one order of magnitude higher than that of batch systems (234.57 mol m−3 h−1) and about 2–5 times higher than those of flowing tube reactors (734.56–3789.5 mol m−3 h−1) at a milder temperature. The remarkable improvement in space–time yields and reaction rate results from the greatly increased gas–liquid mass transfer in the micro-packed bed.30

Batch 1.0 0.1 r.t. 234.57b,c 1.0 Bubble column 1.0 0.5 332.90 1.4 Tube reactor (coil) 5.0 0.4 r.t. 734.56c 3.1 Tube reactor (vertical) 3.2 4.0 3789.5 16.2 This work Micro-packed bed 3.2 0.4 7318.4 31.2

a Entry 1–7, 9–11 performed at 35 bar 9% O2 in N2. Yield determined by GC. The samples were collected when the system reached a steady state. b Pure oxygen pressure. c Aerobic oxidation by RuCl2ĲPPh3)3/TEMPO. d Residence time was not optimized for full conversion. e Silica- supported TEMPO catalysts (0.7 mmol g−1 active site).

a Space–time yields were calculated at maximum conversion as mol substrate converted per reactor volume, per hour, and the amount of

Over the past decade, continuous flow microreactors for aerobic oxidation have attracted attention because of their high production efficiency, controllability, and environmental sustainability over batch or semi-batch reactors.15,16 Much shorter residence time and consequently shrank equipment size are further advantages of the novel reactors.17 Jensen et al.18 demonstrated homogeneously catalysed alcohol oxidations in a thin-layer membrane reactor and the residence time required to reach full conversion was around 1 min with optimized conditions. Vanoye et al.19 evaluated the Cu/TEMPO catalytic system in a gas–liquid segmented flow PFA tubing and indicated that benzyl alcohol was selectively converted to benzaldehyde (conversion >98%) with the residence time of about 12 min. By contrast, aerobic alcohol oxidations in the conventional batch reactors often take several hours to achieve similar yields as in the continuous flow reactors.11 Therefore, these studies revealed that continuous flow microreactors provide excellent gas– liquid mass transfer to accelerate the rate of mass-transfer limited reactions. Additionally, microreactors represent an attractive tool for kinetics measurements,20–22 owing to their excellent mixing performance and improved process control. According to the published works,11,23,24 the kinetics of Cu/

Effect of the operating temperature and total gas pressure. Temperature is one of the important factors that greatly affect the conversion and selectivity of the reactants. Fig. 3A shows the trend of benzaldehyde yield versus residence time at the temperature range of 20–45 °C. The results indicate that the reaction rate increases as the temperature increases. It is noted that nearly 100% yield can be reached with the residence time of 30 s at 45 °C. Even at the temperature of 20 °C, the residence time required to full conversion was less than 1 min. This is in agreement with the experimental phenomenon that the colour of the reaction solution changed from red-brown to green (ESI† Fig. S1). Additionally, the space–time yields (Table 1) were calculated to quantitatively compare the performance of the micro-packed bed to reactors previously used for the aerobic oxidation of benzyl alcohol according to the data in Fig. 3A. As shown in Table 1, the measured space–time yield is 7318.4 mol m−3 h−1

In this study, a micro-packed bed reactor was developed to demonstrate continuous Cu/TEMPO-catalyzed aerobic alcohol oxidations. The safety hazards typically associated with aerobic oxidations are alleviated by using dilute oxygen (9% O2 in N2). Based on the micro-reactor platform, some essential operating conditions, including temperature, pressure, reagent concentration, TEMPO amount, and gas/ liquid flow rate ratio, were optimized. Near-quantitative benzaldehyde yield can be achieved with the residence time as low as 35 s and the space–time yield (7318.4 mol m−3 h−1) for the aerobic oxidation of benzyl alcohol, which is one order of magnitude higher than that of batch systems. Additionally, a kinetic model was established to provide guidance for the oxidation reaction enhancement. The activation energy of the rate constant is 37.1 (±1.3) kJ mol−1, which provides information much closer to intrinsic kinetics compared to earlier reports. To gain further insights, different types of alcohols containing allylic, aromatic, and aliphatic derivatives were performed in the micro-packed bed to extend the substrate scope, in which primary alcohols undergo full conversion to the corresponding aldehyde with the residence times less than 4 min. The developed strategy in this study provided a more efficient and safer way for aerobic alcohol oxidation and may accelerate the adoption of oxygen as a sustainable, cheap oxidant in pharmaceuticals and fragrance industries. Further challenges to be addressed will be scale-up. It has long been suggested that the way to transform microfluidic chemistry into an industrial process is to apply parallel reactor systems (numbering up) rather than to increase in geometry (size).

membrane reactors.18 These data demonstrate that the reaction times for full conversion of primary alcohols in the micro-packed bed are even more than 10 times shorter than those in the slug flow reactors, such as phenyl propanol (entry 3 and 4), 1-octanol (entry 5 and 6), and cyclohexane methanol (entry 9 and 10). The results indicate that the micro-packed bed reactor provides better mass transfer relative to the previous tubing reactors with a gas–liquid segmented (Taylor or slug) flow regime. However, one limitation of this catalytic system was found in the study. The complete conversion of 2-octanol (entry 7) was not achieved within 4 min at 65 °C. However, 90% conversion of 2-octanol was achieved at a residence time of 7 h (entry 8), where the catalyst system of RuCl2ĲPPh3)3/TEMPO was used in a semi- batch reactor. The mildness of reaction conditions is evident by oxidation of aromatic (entry 1 and 3) and aliphatic (entry 5) derivatives. Moreover, pure O2, which represents a significant safety hazard, was replaced with a diluted oxygen source (9% O2 in N2). By alleviating safety issues and enhancing gas–

is revealed that the micro-packed bed reactor can provide excellent gas–liquid mixing for performing kinetics measurements, which will be discussed later. Therefore, considering the economy and efficiency, the molar ratio of O2 to the substrate was determined to be 0.65 : 1 mol/mol for the next step of the research. The effect of the initial concentration of PhCH2OH was investigated at the residence time from 10 to 25 s. The results are shown in Fig. 5A, indicating that a longer residence time yielded a higher concentration of benzaldehyde. Furthermore, at the residence time of 25 s, as the initial concentration of PhCH2OH increases from 0.15 to 0.4 mol L−1, due to the increase of reaction rate (the slope of the fitting line represents the reaction rate), the benzaldehyde concentration is significantly increased. Therefore, a high initial concentration of PhCH2OH is more favourable to aerobic alcohol oxidation. When the PhCH2OH concentration was set to be 0.4 M based on economic consideration, a positive correlation between the productive yield and the amount of TEMPO was observed, as illustrated in Fig. 5B. It is acceptable that the oxidation rate, especially at the early stage, increases when more TEMPO is used. To be more detailed, as the TEMPO concentration increased to 10 mM, the benzaldehyde yields basically did not change with a further increase of TEMPO.

TEMPO was 5% (molar ratio to benzyl alcohol). Space–time yield ¼ mol PhCH2OH ð Þ·X τ·V . b Only the liquid volume was used for the reactor

Elimination of gas–liquid mass transfer limitation. As stated above, the diluted gas (9% O2 in N2) was used to decrease the partial pressure of O2 due to safety concerns, leading to the oxidation reaction more likely to be mass- transfer limited. However, the elimination of gas–liquid mass transfer limitation is important to determine the intrinsic kinetics. In this work, exploring the effect of gas superficial velocity on the reaction performance at the same residence time and a fixed O2/substrate molar ratio (0.65 : 1) was used to demonstrate whether the gas–liquid mass transfer can be ignored. Fig. 7 shows the trend of benzyl alcohol conversion at various gas superficial velocities at the residence time of 25 s. The reaction rate increases when gas superficial velocity is increased at the early stage. However, the conversion does not change significantly as superficial gas velocities exceed 13 cm min−1, indicating the influence of gas–liquid mass transfer is eliminated.

than that of batch reactors. The kinetic parameters are also determined with this flow system, and a pivotal kinetic model is established to provide guidance for the enhancement of this oxidation process.

The benzyl alcohol conversion increased linearly with an increase in oxygen partial pressure at the same residence time (Fig. 8B). Similarly, with the other reactants excessed, the fitting shows the reaction is first-order to the oxygen partial pressure, which agrees well with the literature value.23

Effect of gas and liquid flow rate. The process of homogeneous catalytic benzyl alcohol aerobic oxidation is carried out by contacting gas and liquid in the micro-packed bed reactor. The gas and liquid flow rate have a substantial influence on the hydrodynamics in the reactor.35 In the present study, four micro-packed beds with the same internal diameter (4.35 mm) and different lengths (5; 10; 15; 20 cm) were designed to achieve the same flow rate in different

Entry Substrate Product Substrate concentration/M TEMPO/mol% T/°C P/bar τ/min Yielda Ref.

where X is the conversion of benzyl alcohol and C0 is the initial concentration of benzyl alcohol. The rate of benzyl alcohol oxidation exhibits a 2.25-order dependence on the [(bpy)Cu] (Fig. 8A), which means that the reaction rate is sensitive to the [(bpy)Cu] and is similar to the literature value of 2.24 It is found that the reaction was completely inactive at low (bpy)Cu concentration, so the reaction did not follow second-order correlation. With the O2 concentration excessive in the gas phase and excellent mixing performance in micro-packed, the O2 concentration in the liquid phase can be considered unchanged. Eqn (4) can be simplified as follows: