particles, increasing the surface area available for reaction. Although higher two-phase flow rates can achieve shorter reaction apparent residence times and higher mass transfer efficiency, they also result in lower hydrogen efficiency (B) of the working solution. Moreover, the 9-second reaction apparent residence time is two orders of magnitude shorter than that typically used in industrial processes, offering a significant advantage. Subsequent studies have shown that at a 9 s apparent residence time, the effective anthraquinone retention rate remains as high as 99.9%. In this part of the experiment, when the hydrogen flow rate is 10.8 mm s−1, 9 s represents the apparent residence time, the effect of hydrogen consumption on the gas flow rate is more obvious. This results in a lower gas content and a higher liquid content, leading to a longer actual apparent residence time of the liquid phase compared to the apparent residence time. 3.1.4 Influence of temperature. Temperature, as a crucial operational parameter, significantly influences the reaction process. The study considered three industrially relevant temperature gradients: 30 °C, 50 °C, and 70 °C. Fig. 10(a) shows that the conversion rate within the reactor's working solution increases significantly with temperature. An increase from 30 °C to 70 °C almost doubles the conversion rate. The elevated temperature enhances mass transfer due to increased molecular motion, accelerating the mass transfer rate and thus increasing the overall volumetric mass transfer coefficient, as shown in Fig. 10(b). Therefore, the most direct reason for the increased conversion rate with temperature is the enhanced volumetric mass transfer coefficient. Additionally, higher temperatures can decrease the viscosity of the liquid phase, further enhancing the mass transfer rates and improving reaction kinetics. Fig. 11 reveals that although the conversion rate and mass transfer performance significantly increase when the temperature is set to 70 °C, the effective anthraquinone retention rate significantly decreases with the rise in

temperature. At 50 °C, the effective anthraquinone retention rate remains high. At this temperature, AAQ shows good reactivity at the catalytic sites and can promptly detach after hydrogenation to AAQH2, reducing the likelihood of over- hydrogenation. Compared to 30 °C, 50 °C maintains higher mass transfer and reaction performance, making it a more suitable reaction temperature for this process. 3.1.5 Influence of reactor working pressure. The working pressure is a crucial parameter for gas–liquid reactions. This study explored the impact of varying working pressures on reaction performance, an area not extensively studied.48 As shown in Fig. 12(a), the working pressure changes have a minimal impact on overall conversion rates. However, in the range of 200–400 kPa, increasing the working pressure reduces the volumetric flow rate of the gas phase and slows

conversion rate is lower when passing through the same hydrogenation reactor under identical conditions. Consequently, the probability of deep hydrogenation producing degradation products is reduced, thereby offering a higher advantage in effective anthraquinone retention rate. This optimization in effective anthraquinone retention rate is achieved due to the high solubility of AAQ in the working solution. Therefore, setting the concentration of AAQ at 300 g L−1 is more advantageous. The hydrogen conversion rates under each condition can correspond to the situation with uG = 10.8 mm s−1 in Fig. 7(a). 3.1.3 Influence of apparent residence time and two-phase flow rate. The apparent residence time in the reactor is critical for substance conversion, directly affecting the reaction conversion rate and effective anthraquinone retention rate. Fig. 9(a) illustrates the relationship between apparent residence

X AAQ hydrogenation reaction conversion ratio, % T Temperature, °C t Apparent residence time of the reaction, s u Liquid or gas velocity in the channel, m s−1

down the gas phase flow, which affects the contact efficiency between the gas and the liquid phases. The increase in working pressure reduces the flowability of the gas phase, slowing down the gas flow rate and decreasing the opportunities for gas molecules to contact the liquid phase. As a result, the mass transfer process at the gas–liquid interface becomes less efficient, thereby reducing the overall volumetric mass transfer coefficient, as shown in Fig. 12(b). The total mass transfer rate is governed by two competing factors: the volumetric mass transfer coefficient and the mass transfer driving force. At 200 kPa, the lower hydrogen partial pressure reduces the driving force. However, the higher gas volumetric flow rate increases turbulence and interfacial contact, leading to a larger volumetric mass transfer coefficient. Conversely, at 400 kPa, the elevated hydrogen partial pressure enhances the driving force, but the reduced gas flow rate (due to lower volumetric expansion) diminishes gas–liquid contact efficiency, decreasing the volumetric mass transfer coefficient. Furthermore, the increased liquid-phase hydrogen solubility at higher pressures elevates system resistance and energy consumption. Therefore, 300 kPa optimally balances these competing effects: sufficient hydrogen partial pressure to maintain a robust driving force, while retaining adequate gas flow rates to sustain a high volumetric mass transfer coefficient. This equilibrium minimizes over-hydrogenation risks and maximizes reactor stability. 3.1.6 Influence of gas–liquid molar ratio. The feed ratio of gas to liquid is critical for the reaction. This section discusses the effects of different feed molar ratios on the reaction and mass transfer. The study considered three feed states with gas–liquid molar ratios of 3 : 1, 2 : 1, and 1 : 1. By fixing the hydrogen flow rate and adjusting the liquid flow rate to alter the molar ratio, Fig. 13(a) demonstrates that higher gas– liquid ratios yield higher conversion rates under identical reaction conditions. Increased gas flow rates thin the liquid

bed reactors (TBRs), which exhibit different reaction performance due to the smaller flow channels in μPBRs. The miniaturization in μPBRs enhances mass and heat transfer,38 reduces reaction times,39 and improves control over reaction conditions.40,41 These features lead to higher yields, selectivity, and efficiency compared to conventional systems.42–44

reported a gas agitation method to enhance gas–liquid mass transfer via gas disturbance. Besides, fluidized beds17 have been used to achieve high reaction rates and efficient catalyst utilization in industry. Despite these advancements, these methods often result in increased risks due to the high excessive use of hydrogen and the addition of active equipment. These challenges necessitate the development of new hydrogenation reactors that combine high catalytic efficiency and selectivity with enhanced safety. Thus, developing new, green, safe, and reliable hydrogenation equipment and reaction system is critical. In the pursuit of higher efficiency, chemical engineering has increasingly embraced micro-scale processes.18–22 Microchemical systems, characterized by microscale effect and high surface-to- volume ratios,23–27 have shown high promise in various reactions, including oxidation,28–30 hydrogenation,31–33 and catalyst screening.34 Among these, micro-packed-bed reactors (μPBRs) with particle diameters less than 500 μm have become essential tools in microchemical engineering for gas–liquid–solid three- phase reactions.24,35,36 Losey et al.37 first introduced μPBRs and reported distinct flow patterns compared to traditional trickle-

Qmix Total volumetric flow rate of the gas–liquid mixture, mL min−1

The apparent residence time (t) in the micro-packed-bed reactor is calculated as the ratio of the total volumetric flow rate of the gas–liquid mixture (Qmix) to the reactor's pore volume (VR), as shown in eqn (3):

is VKMnO4, and the volume of the "hydrogenated–oxidized– extracted" working solution sample used for titration is V. The hydrogen efficiency B is a measure of the reactor's hydrogenation performance and is indicative of the reactor's overall reaction efficiency. The relative molecular mass is represented by M and the mass concentration of AAQ by W. The hydrogen efficiency B and conversion rate X for the reactor are calculated by eqn (1) and (2), respectively. B represents the mass of H2O2 that can be obtained per liter of working solution after hydrogenation and oxidation, while X refers to the ratio of the amount of AAQ participating in the reaction in the working solution to the total amount of AAQ. Since AAQ (or H4AAQ) will yield an equimolar amount of H2O2 after hydrogenation and oxidation, X represents the conversion rate.

clearly shows that AAQ exhibits a significantly higher effective anthraquinone retention rate compared to EAQ. Since the solubility of AAQ is significantly higher than that of EAQ, when the operating conditions require achieving a certain hydrogen efficiency (B), AAQ can reach the target with a lower conversion rate, thus ensuring higher effective anthraquinone retention rate. For example, when using a 300 g L−1 AAQ working solution and a 100 g L−1 EAQ working solution, to achieve an industrial hydrogen efficiency of 8 g L−1, the EAQ working solution needs to reach a conversion rate of 58%, while AAQ needs to achieve only a 20% conversion rate. A lower conversion rate means a lower possibility of degradation product formation. This superior performance of AAQ over EAQ offers significant guidance for the development and optimization of microreactor equipment and processes for hydrogen peroxide production. Furthermore, the space–time yield (STY) of different reactors is crucial for reactor selection. The STY calculation formula is shown in eqn (8).

time and anthraquinone conversion under a molar ratio of anthraquinone to hydrogen of 1 :1 and the liquid flow ranges from 0.6–3.1 mm s−1. As a result of the fixed anthraquinone-to- hydrogen molar ratio, the gas–liquid flow rates exhibit proportional variations in the plots. It is evident that with increasing two-phase flow rates, the apparent residence time decreases, leading to a reduction in conversion rate. However, due to the enhanced gas–liquid mass transfer capability of the micro-packed bed, a 27% anthraquinone conversion rate is achieved with an apparent residence time of only 9 seconds, corresponding to a hydrogen efficiency of 10.13 g L−1. Although the conversion rate decreases with increasing biphasic flow rates, the enhanced disturbance in gas–liquid phases increases the overall volumetric mass transfer coefficient, as shown in Fig. 9(b). This enhancement in mass transfer is due to the reduction in boundary layer thickness around the catalyst

The establishment of a mass transfer model is crucial for understanding the intrinsic mechanisms within μPBRs and for the effective design of such reactors.38,48 By developing the mass transfer prediction model, we aim to accurately describe the behavior of gas–liquid phases during the hydrogenation reaction. The mass transfer model allows us to predict the reactor's performance under various operating conditions, thereby optimizing the reaction parameters to enhance efficiency and effective anthraquinone retention rate. The mass transfer model development is based on a comprehensive understanding of the hydrogenation process in μPBRs, which is based on the experiment data. We have incorporated dimensionless parameters such as the liquid- phase Reynolds number (ReL), the gas-phase Weber number (WeG), and the Schmidt number (Sc) to effectively characterize the behavior of gas–liquid two-phase flow and mass transfer. The choice of these parameters is grounded in their ability to represent the dynamic interactions within μPBRs. ReL describes the flow inertia force of the liquid phase, WeG indicates the interfacial disturbances between gas and liquid phases, and Sc relates to the diffusion properties of the phases. By fitting the data, a mass transfer prediction model for the micro-packed bed was obtained, as shown in eqn (9). The mass transfer prediction results are illustrated in Fig. 17.

flowmeter (HORIBA Precision Instruments Beijing Co., Ltd) and a high-pressure syringe pump (Fusion 6000, Chemyx, USA), respectively. After mixing, the two phases flow into the micro-packed- bed reactor which is packed with palladium metal catalyst particles. At the rear end of the μPBR, a gas–liquid separation tank is connected to separate the gas and liquid phases. The upper part of the separation tank serves as the gas pathway, with a back-pressure valve and pressure sensor at the end of the gas line to control the system's working pressure. The lower part of the separation tank serves as the liquid pathway to discharge the hydrogenated liquid, thereby controlling the liquid level in the separation tank. The hydrogenated liquid was collected for subsequent titration analysis. At the end of each experiment, N2 was used to purge the micro-packed bed to ensure consistent initial flow conditions for every experimental point. All experiments were conducted in triplicate, and results are reported as mean ± standard deviation to ensure reproducibility. The experimental setup utilizes a stainless steel μPBR, as shown in Fig. 3. The μPBR has an inner diameter of 4.6 mm and a length of 10 cm, connected to tubes at the front and rear ends, each with an outer diameter of 1.6 mm and an inner diameter of 1.0 mm. Commercially available frit

where ΔCH2 is the liquid H2 concentration difference between the micro-packed-bed inlet and outlet; the liquid phase concentration can be predicted from the pressure at the front and rear ends of the μPBR through eqn (6). FL is the liquid flow rate in the μPBR. VR is the pore volume in the μPBR.

yield of 336.8 gH2O2 gPd −1 h−1 — 25× and 21× higher than those of conventional slurry reactors and trickle- bed reactors, respectively. For the first time, AAQ demonstrated superior performance over

Micro-packed-bed reactors have been successfully applied in such hydrogenation reaction systems. For instance, Liu et al.45

demonstrated the advantages of μPBRs in the hydrogenation of 2-ethylanthraquinone (EAQ), citing improved space–time yields (STYs) and enhanced mass transfer rates. Unfortunately, due to the solubility limitations of EAQ in the working solution, the hydrogen efficiency (B) of hydrogen peroxide production at a reaction conversion rate of 40–50% was only 3–5 g L−1, far below industrial requirements. Pursuing high hydrogen efficiency to improve reaction conversion significantly reduces effective anthraquinone retention rate. Therefore, it is urgent to address the issues of hydrogen efficiency and effective anthraquinone retention rate in μPBRs. Notably, 2-amylanthraquinone (AAQ) offers significant engineering advantages over the industrially used EAQ, including higher solubility and greater reaction effective anthraquinone retention rate.17 However, there has been no systematic study on the hydrogenation of AAQ in μPBRs. Therefore, utilizing AAQ for hydrogenation in μPBRs presents a highly promising approach for the intensification of the Riedl–Pfleiderer process, potentially resolving the issues of reaction effective anthraquinone retention rate and conversion rate in anthraquinone hydrogenation within μPBRs. In this work, we investigated the intensification of the 2-amylanthraquinone hydrogenation process by using μPBRs. We examined the effects of reaction apparent residence time, catalyst stability, reaction temperature, reactor working pressure, anthraquinone concentration, and working solution ratio on reaction conversion and mass transfer. The advantages of the μPBR were systematically compared with those of traditional hydrogenation equipment, emphasizing the superior efficiency and safety of μPBRs. The superior performance of AAQ over EAQ in μPBRs has been reported for the first time. A mass transfer model was established to optimize the hydrogenation process, effectively describing the complex mass transfer process involved in the hydrogenation of 2-amylanthraquinone.

This study demonstrates the successful application of μPBRs for the hydrogenation of 2-amylanthraquinone (AAQ), significantly enhancing the process efficiency of the Riedl–Pfleiderer method for hydrogen peroxide production. μPBRs exhibited a space– time yield (STY) approximately 25 times higher than that of slurry reactors and nearly 21 times higher than that of trickle- bed reactors (TBRs) under identical conditions. Under optimal conditions, the hydrogenation efficiency reaches 10.13 g L−1, with an effective anthraquinone retention rate of up to 99.9%, and the process performance significantly exceeds that of EAQ. This overcomes the issue in the Riedl–Pfleiderer process where effective anthraquinone retention rate and hydrogenation efficiency cannot be simultaneously achieved. Furthermore, after completing a long-cycle test, the effective anthraquinone content remains at 99.1% after 10 cycles. This improvement is attributed to the higher surface area-to-volume ratio, improved mass and heat transfer rates, and better catalyst utilization in μPBRs. Besides, a mass transfer prediction model was developed and validated with an error margin within 20%. This model enhances our understanding of mass transfer phenomena and offers a predictive tool for optimizing reaction conditions. The study also demonstrated superior catalyst efficiency and operational stability in μPBRs, maintaining high conversion rates and effective anthraquinone retention rates while minimizing AAQ degradation. In addition, the micro-scale design of μPBRs minimizes hydrogen accumulation risks, enhancing both operational safety and reliability. In summary, the integration of μPBRs in AAQ hydrogenation marks a significant advancement, offering improved efficiency, safety, and sustainability. The innovative mass transfer model and the compelling performance benefits underscore μPBRs as a promising choice for future industrial applications, paving the way for the next generation of high-performance hydrogenation reactors. Additionally, several areas still require further research and improvement. For instance, the specific apparent reaction kinetics of AAQ hydrogenation within μPBRs need to be further investigated to deepen our understanding of the reaction process. Additionally, while μPBRs have demonstrated excellent performance at the laboratory scale, scaling up these reactors for industrial applications presents significant challenges, including issues related to parallel scaling method.

In order to address the long operational cycles of industrial equipment for hydrogen peroxide production, it is necessary to understand whether the effective anthraquinone retention rate and conversion rate of the working liquid in the reactor will change during extended cycles of operation. At the same time, it is necessary to verify whether the μPBR in the microchemical system is capable of experimentally simulating the industrial anthraquinone cycle operation. To observe the stability of the working solution in the hydrogenation process within μPBRs, long-cycle recycling experiments were conducted to verify the process stability. We chose to conduct the cycling experiments under optimal conditions with a hydrogen efficiency of 10.13 g L−1. The