Keywords: Microreactor Scale-up Two-phase flow Mass transfer Numerical simulation

In conventional laboratory-scale batch reactors, the overall vo­ lumetric mass transfer coefficient of liquid-liquid systems ranges from 0.001 ~ 0.02 s−1. In the microreactor, interfacial contact area between phases has been significantly enlarged owing to its small scale. Consequently, ka of microreactors is consistently two or three orders of magnitude larger than the conventional reactors, usually in the range of 0.05 ~ 15 s−1 (Hartman et al., 2011; Wang et al., 2020).

Continuous-flow chemistry, using reactors with channel dimen­ sions in the microor millimeter regions, is a relatively new field and have found widespread applications in the last couple of years (Gutmann et al., 2015; Anon, 2016; Elvira et al., 2013; Pastre et al., 2013). Microstructured systems efficiently utilize advantages re­ sulting from small scale. In comparison to conventional reactors, one of the main features of microreactors is the high surface-to-volume ratio (Kulkarni et al., 2009; Cherkasov et al., 2016). Their specific surface areas can reach up to 50000 m2∕m3, which is two or three orders of magnitude higher than conventional reactors (Jähnisch et al., 2004; Hu et al., 2019). Owing to this, heat transfer rate of microstructures is significantly improved and reactions can be car­ ried out under nearly isothermal conditions with exactly defined residence times. On account of the high heat removal efficiency and continuous operation mode, local hot spots which serve as ignitions for explosions are minimized (Newman and Jensen, 2013; Kockmann et al., 2017). On the other hand, as the dimensions of micro­ structured reactors are extremely small, the total inventory of ha­ zardous reactants in the reactors is quite little. The power of an explosion is proportional to the mass of explosives, thus the severity of a potential explosion in microstructures is low (Anon, 2016; Kockmann et al., 2017). Further, mixing time in microreactors can be shortened to several milliseconds due to the small dimensions of pathways. Therefore, microreactors are quite suitable for inherently safer re-design of fast and highly exothermic reactions (Hartman et al., 2011; Srinivasan and Natarajan, 2012).

3.5.1. Effect of volumetric flow rate To investigate the effect of volumetric flow rates on toluene ni­ tration in the meso-scale flow reactor, Tr,0 and molar ratio (C7H8∕HNO3) were controlled at 45∘C and 1:1.2, respectively. Moreover, residence time was kept identical by adopting different numbers of reaction modules for different flow rates. For example, one reaction module was used for the flow rate of 10 mL/min while six modules were employed for the rate of 60 mL/min.

measurement was obtained for the lowest flow rate. It can be seen in Fig. 11a, the highest Tr was always detected by T1 which indicated the reaction was the most violent inside the first two reaction modules. With higher flow rates, the detected overtemperature phenomenon (Tr − Tr,0) was getting increasingly significant and it reached up to 21.3 ∘C for the flow rate of 60 mL/min. Fig. 11b shows the pressure under different flow rates. The outlet of the module was connected to atmosphere. With the increasing of flow velocity, more reaction modules were adopted to keep the residence time identical. The longer reaction channel together with higher velocity caused the increase of inlet pressure. Besides, it can be seen the pressure de­ creased approximately linearly along the channel. A single reaction module was used for the flow rate of 10 mL/min and very few exothermicity was observed at the outlet. It can be inferred that the exothermicity entirely occurred inside the module. An analysis of temperature variation inside the channel is made based on the reaction process and experimental data, shown in Fig. 12. Reactants were pre-heated to Ti and the reaction began when the two streams of fluids collided at the Y-junction. The concentra­ tions of reactants were high at the beginning, leading to fast reaction rate and high heat generation rate. Besides, the oil in the jacket acted as a heating source at this stage. As a result, Tr increased dramatically at the beginning. When Tr exceeded Tr,0, the oil transferred to a cooling source and the heat removal rate gradually increased with the increasing temperature difference between the fluids inside the channel and the oil, according to Eq. 16. Additionally, reaction rate slowed down due to the generation of water and decrease of re­ actants concentration. However, heat generation rate was still higher than heat removal rate at this stage. Thus, Tr rose at a gradually slowing rate. When the rate of heat generation equalled to heat removal, Tr reached the highest, namely Tmax. Thereafter, as reactants continue to flow, Tr gradually got closer to Tr,0. Furthermore, the temperature of T1 was assumed between Tc and Tmax (Fig. 12a, area

complete the reaction. Even if excluded the holding time, it was as long as 3000 s. As a contrast, in the meso-scale flow reactor, this time could be shortened to 132 s to achieve similar conversion and better selectivity. Hence, the space time yield as well as the annual production of the flow reactor was much higher than the batch re­ actor. Although the highest value of overtemperature was similar in the two reactors, its duration time was much shorter in the flow system. But meanwhile, this indicated a more dramatic temperature change inside the flow reactor, which may put forward extra re­ quirement on the reactor material. Further, by employing flow mode, the reaction environment was converted from an open system to a pressurized system. Due to the long and narrow channel, the inlet pressure could be as high as 1.1 MPa. Therefore, sealing was more demanding in the flow reactor to avoid rupture and leakage. This could be deemed as a kind of risk transfer in flow mode (Zhang et al., 2016). Moreover, the total inventory of reactants in the flow reactor was one order of magnitude smaller than that in the batch reactor. This was the crucial point making flow reactor inherently safer. For exothermic reactions, heat release rate related closely to re­ action rate. For a typical chemical reaction aA + bB ⟶ pP + qQ, the reaction rate is often of the form (Wang et al., 2020; Zhang et al., 2020)

2.5.1. Experimental setup and procedures An overview of the meso-scale flow reactor system is shown in Fig. 3. The reactor was commercially available in China (Jiangsu Diyuan precision instrument technology Co., Ltd., China). It consisted of nine modules and the channels were made of hastelloy (1/4 in o.d.) while the jackets were made of stainless steel. There were some pulse structures on the channel (not shown in the figure) to enhance mass transfer. Mixed acid and toluene were delivered into the re­ actor by two metering pumps respectively. The first two modules of the reactor were used to control the temperature of reactants before reaction. In this experiment, reactants were all pre-heated to 30 ± 1 ∘C. Then two reactants mix through the Y-micromixer at the third module whose structure is shown in Fig. 3b. The following modules, whose hold-up volume was 22 mL each, were all reaction modules. A thermostat (Jiangsu Haisi Temperature Control Equip­ ment Co., Ltd., China) consisting of two independent systems were employed for temperature control. Besides, valves, thermocouples

sessment in development and operation of modular continuous-flow processes. React. Chem. Eng. 2, 258–280. Kuba, M.G., Prins, R., Pirngruber, G.D., 2007. Batch and continuous nitration of toluene and chlorobenzene with acetyl nitrate over zeolite beta. Appl. Catal. A Gen. 333, 24–29. Kulkarni, A.A., 2014. Continuous flow nitration in miniaturized devices. Beilstein J. Org. Chem. 10. Kulkarni, A.A., Kalyani, V.S., Joshi, R.A., Joshi, R.R., 2009. Continuous flow nitration of benzaldehyde. Org. Process Res. Dev. 13, 999–1002. Li, G., Shang, M., Song, Y., Su, Y., 2018. Characterization of liquid-liquid mass transfer performance in a capillary microreactor system. AIChE J. 64, 1106–1116. Li, G., Pu, X., Shang, M., Zha, L., Su, Y., 2019. Intensification of liquid-liquid two-phase mass transfer in a capillary microreactor system. AIChE J. 65, 334–346. Li, L., Yao, C., Jiao, F., Han, M., Chen, G., 2017. Experimental and kinetic study of the nitration of 2-ethylhexanol in capillary microreactors. Chem. Eng. Process. 117, 179–185. Li, L., Zhang, J., Du, C., Luo, G., 2018. Determination of the liquid/liquid mass transfer coefficient for each phase in microchannels. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 57, 9028–9036.

The main goal of this study was to scale up toluene nitration in a meso-scale flow reactor while considering process safety. The semi batch reaction process in RC1 showed a highest value of over­ temperature of 24.6∘C and the MNT selectivity of 62%. The heat and mass transfer efficiency was low in the batch reactor. A meso-scale reactor system was adopted to scale up toluene nitration in a flow way. Parallel flow regime was observed in the channel and Bo was bigger than 1, indicating the effect of gravity can not be ignored. CFD simulation demonstrated the hydrodynamic characteristics of the two reactants flowing inside the Y-mixer. Overall mass transfer coefficient was determined by n-butanol-succinic acid-water system. With the increasing of Re, ka increased linearly which was in the range of 0.01 ~ 0.07 s−1. Volumetric flow rate had a significant influence on toluene nitration. Experimental results showed that toluene conversion increased from 26% to 86% while MNT selectivity increased from 73% to 95% with the increasing of flow rates from 10 mL/min to 60 mL/min. However, reaction temperatures and molar ratios had no significant impact on toluene conversion. Meanwhile, increasing the reaction temperature would lower the MNT se­ lectivity. A comparison between semi-batch and continuous reaction modes was also presented. It showed that overtemperature phe­ nomenon was still remarkable in the flow reactor, which meant the present heat removal capacity was far from enough. By adopting flow reaction mode, the reaction environment was converted from an open system to a pressurized system, which can be deemed as risk transfer.The productivity of the flow reactor could reach up to 2572 kg/a, which was much higher than the bench-scale batch re­ actor. In this study, it can be seen that the decrease of heat and mass transfer efficiency is inevitable in direct dimension-enlarge of channels. In this 1/4 in. meso-scale flow reactor, overtemperature phenomenon was notable. It will not only lead to side reactions, but also cause potential hazards. It must be stressed that safety in scale up process of microreactors should not be ignored. A systematic evaluation method to assess the safety level of flow reactors may be developed, which is seldom reported at present.

In this study, toluene nitration was scaled up in a meso-scale flow reactor and safety was considered. The exothermic characteristic was demonstrated in a batch calorimeter. Parallel flow was observed in the flow channel and numerical simulation was carried out to show the hydrodynamics. Mass transfer coefficient of the reactor mixer was determined. The effects of flow rates, temperatures and molar ratios on toluene nitration in the flow reactor were analyzed. The conversion of toluene increased from 26% to 86% with the increase of flow rates while the impacts of temperatures and molar ratios were comparatively small. A productivity of 2572 kg/a could be achieved by this meso-scale flow reactor but the highest over­ temperature inside the channel was more than 21.3 ∘C. A comparison between performances of the batch calorimeter and the flow reactor was also presented. The finding of this study can serve as a reference to design inherently safer meso-scale flow reactors for kinetically fast and highly-exothermic reactions. © 2022 Institution of Chemical Engineers. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

