A schematic overview of the microchemical system is shown in Fig. 3. The reactants were delivered by metering pumps (Beijing Sa- tellite Co. Ltd.) from glass bottles and separately pumped into stainless steel capillaries with an inner diameter of 1.4 mm and an external diameter of 2 mm, representing the feed stream tubes. The feed streams were preheated to the reaction temperature and then mixed in a micro-sieve dispersion mixer (316 stainless steel). The structure and the mixing performance have been described in literatures [19,20]. The dispersion aperture is square and 0.2 mm in the side length. The microchannel in the mixer is 10 mm in length, 0.4 mm in width and 0.6 mm in height. A stainless steel micro-tube with an inner diameter of 1.4 mm and an external diameter of 2 mm is connected directly downstream to the micromixer to con- trol the residence time. The reaction time could be controlled accu- rately by changing the length of the micro-tube. The preheating zone, the mixer and the micro-tube were immerged in a water bath. When leaving the reaction zone, a microneutralizer was de- signed to quench the reaction. An excessive amount of phosphate buffer solution (pH = 7.0) was pumped into the reacting system and changed the pH of reacting mixture to about 7.0. Hydroxyl ion was consumed and dehydrochlorination was terminated. The samples were collected at the outlet after the microneutralizer for determining the DCP conversion. To avoid the hydrolysis of ECH in water, the samples were stored for less than 2 h in an ice water bath before analysis.

Fig. 4 shows the effect of temperature on the conversion of 1,3- DCP and 2,3-DCP within a range of 35–85 C at the residence time of 2 s and 10 s respectively. The conversion of 1,3-DCP can reach about 85% at 35 C and 2,3-DCP of 14% at 55 C in the microchem- ical system while the conversion of 1,3-DCP and 2,3-DCP at the same temperature are only about 10% and near zero respectively in the literature [12]. The results indicate that the microchemical system can improve the reaction rate greatly due to the excellent mixing performance and enhanced mass transfer characteristics. When the temperature increases to 45 C or higher, 1,3-DCP con- version reaches to nearly 100% while 2,3-DCP conversion increases quickly from about 14% to 80% when the temperature is increased to 85 C. It shows the fact that 2,3-DCP is much less reactive than 1,3-DCP. As 2,3-DCP is the majority in the DCP solution in the con- ventional process, designing the residence time should mainly con- sider the reaction rate of 2,3-DCP. The minority of 1,3-DCP can be

aqueous solution containing an excess of Ca(OH)2 and offered a ki- netic model of the overall system using the techniques of potenti- ometry and gas chromatography. Ma et al. [14] studied the kinetics of dehydrochlorination of DCP (mainly 1,3-DCP) and the side reac- tion of ECH hydrolysis. The results indicate that both two reactions can be considered as second order reactions. But all the experi- ments are performed in stirred batch reactor in which the poor mixing performance may mislead the kinetic model based on the assumption of an ideal batch reactor especially when the temper- ature is higher. We can find a deviation of the model from the data when the temperature is higher than 50 C. As a result, more work should be done to describe the process more clearly. Microreactors are attractive for performing kinetics measure- ments for enhanced reagent mixing, precise control over reaction temperature and residence time, minute reagents consumption [15]. Thus, more accurate kinetic parameters can be extrapolated, which would otherwise be difficult using a batch flask. They have been used to characterize kinetics at Diels–Alder reaction [16], synthesis of sodium nitrotetrazolate (NaNT) [17] and fast exother- mic pre-mixing reaction [18]. In this work, a microchemical system, including a micromixer, a micro-tube and a microneutralizer, was designed to study the kinetics of dehydrochlorination of dichloropropanol. The objective of this work is to improve the accuracy of kinetic investigations and establish a model approaching intrinsic kinetics for reaction mechanism understanding and process intensification. The dichlo- ropropanol solution mixed with sodium hydroxide solution in the micromixer and the reaction proceeded in the micro-tube connect- ing directly to the micromixer. The residence time was strictly con- trolled to several seconds with the quenching effect of the microneutralizer. The reaction kinetics of dehydrochlorination of 2, 3-dichloro-1-propanol, including the order of the reaction, the pre-exponential factor and activation energy of the rate constant, were determined in the presence of caustic soda.

The samples were collected directly from the outlet of the microneutralizer. The samples were diluted and measured by gas chromatography (Shimadzu GC-2014) with a flame ionization detector under following conditions: the injection temperature, 220 C; the column temperature, 70–220 C, 30 C/min; the detec- tor temperature, 280 C. The sample volume for all analysis was 2 lL. The dichloropropanol conversion X is calculated by the fol- lowing equations:

Experimental conditions: 1,3-DCP and 2,3-DCP solution (1 wt.% each): 10 ml/min; NaOH solution (0.65 wt.%): 5 ml/min; phosphate buffer solution (pH = 7.0, 0.5 mol/L): 5 ml/min. The molar ratio of OH to DCP was 1.05 and the residence time of 1,3-DCP and 2,3- DCP were 2 s and 10 s, respectively. The micro-tubes for 1,3-DCP and 2,3-DCP were 0.32 m and 1.62 m, respectively.

Determination of kinetic parameters of dehydrochlorination of dichloropropanol in a microreactor

The reaction kinetics of dehydrochlorination of dichloropropanol (including 1,3-dichloro-2-propanol and 2,3-dichloro-1-propanol) is investigated with a microchemical system, which is constructed with a micromixer, a micro-tube and a microneutralizer. The reaction starts up by mixing dichloropropanol solution and sodium hydroxide solution in the micromixer, proceeds in the following micro-tube for a residence time strictly controlled to several seconds, and quenches in the microneutralizer. The results show that 2,3-dichloro-1-propanol is much less reactive than 1,3-dichloro-2-propanol. Rate constants of the dehydrochlorination reaction (2,3-dichloro-1-propanol) are determined in the temperature range of 50–80 C. The reaction kinetics is found to be first order with respect to hydroxyl ion concentration and second order to dichloropropanol concentration. The activation energy is 150 (±10) kJ mol1 and the pre- exponential factor is 1.61  1025. Compared with earlier reports on the kinetics of this reaction, this mic- rochemical system provides information much closer to what the intrinsic kinetics determines, showing distinct values for reaction mechanism understanding and process intensification in further work.  2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

3.1. Different reaction rates of 1,3-DCP and 2,3-DCP in the microchemical system

" The kinetics of dehydrochlorination of dichloropropanol is studied in a microreactor.

Fig. 6. Conversion of 2,3-DCP versus time at the temperature range of 50–80 C. Experimental conditions: 2,3-DCP solution (1 wt.%): 10 ml/min; NaOH solution (2 wt.%): 3.1 ml/min; phosphate buffer solution (pH = 7.0, 0.5 mol/L): 10 ml/min. The molar ratio of OH to DCP was 2. The residence time was varied by changing the length of the reaction tube (0.14–5.54 m).

