One fundamental feature of branched polymers is their relatively low viscosities, which is theoretically beneficial for continuous-flow operations without clogging in the applied tubular reactors. However, in contrast to the preparation of linear polymers, the application of continuous-flow reactors for constructing polymers with branched architectures is still in an early stage. Isaure et al.35 reported the synthesis of water- soluble branched poly(dimethyl acrylamide) in parallel tubular reactors. The tubular reactors had higher space-time yields compared to flasks, and the products were slightly diﬀerent owing to the better sealing of the tubular reactors and hence superior exclusion of traces of O2. Liu and Chang36 synthesized dendritic poly(amido amine) in a convergent multistep microreactor system based on an individually designed setup with an interdigital micromixer. The reaction time of each step was reduced from several hours to seconds at room temperature instead of 0 °C required for batch reactors. Wilms et al.37 realized the ring-opening multibranched polymerization of glycidol in a microfluidic device. Such an exothermic reaction benefited from the fast heat and mass transfer provided by microreactors, meanwhile avoiding the time-consuming monomer addition in the batch operation. Combining atom transfer radical polymerization with SCVP, Bally et al.38 reported the synthesis of branched poly(methyl methacrylate) in microreactors. Their results indicated that poly(methyl methacrylate) prepared in microreactors exhibited higher branching eﬃciency than batch reactors. Moreover, the coil flow inversion was applied to further reduce the mass transport limitation rising from the increased viscosity at a high monomer conversion. The improvement on the branching eﬃciency confirmed the eﬀectiveness of this continuous-flow synthesis approach in controlling polymer properties.39

Synthesis of Branched Poly(butyl acrylate) Using the Strathclyde Method in Continuous-Flow Microreactors

Continuous polymerization processes are always preferred in the industrial production of bulk polymers. In recent years, microreactor technology has attracted great attention in the preparation of special polymer products. Microreactors have faster heat and mass transfer rates because of their higher surface-to-volume ratio compared to conventional batch reactors, eﬀectively minimizing inhomogeneity of various substance concentrations and occurrence of hot spots in highly exothermic polymerization of vinyl monomers. More- over, microreactors can be readily scaled up to satisfy industrial

to increase according to the trend in Figure 7 until the polymerization system approached the instantaneous gel point. Therefore, the risk of gelation still exists for the recipe of BA100−DVB5−DDT2, and residence time should be adjusted to avoid the cross-linking by terminating polymerization in advance. In all, the analysis of MWD curves at various monomer conversions revealed the gradual branching process, as the weight fractions of components with diﬀerent branching degrees kept changing. In the early polymerization stage, small and slightly branched chains were formed from the coupling reaction between primary chains. While in the later stage, the coupling between branched chains would become dominant, resulting in the large and highly branched chains with the increase of both molecular weight and dispersity. Still, further work is needed to predict the gel point in the continuous-flow system. 3.4. Comparison of the Branched Polymerization Performance between Microreactors and Batch Reac- tors. The comparison between the capillary microreactor and the batch reactor for the preparation of b-PBA is presented in Figure 8, using the recipe of BA100−DVB5−DDT2. It can be seen that the polymerization was initiated quickly in the microreactor (Figure 8a), owing to its enhanced heat and mass transfer. The reaction mixture could be quickly heated to the set temperature upon entering the microreactor, and the generated free radicals would rapidly contact with monomers to propagate in the narrow confined channel. Instead, it would take a longer time to reach the set reaction temperature in the batch reactor, and the temperature variation of the reaction mixture could reach 5.5 °C, with the temperature being higher than that of the external heating source (Figure S5a). For the continuous process, owing to the small diameter of the capillary microreactor, it was hard to directly insert a temperature sensor into the inside solution. Therefore, a heat transfer model was utilized to analyze the temperature distribution inside the microreactor and the temperature variation was calculated to be below 0.1 °C (Figure S5b). Because of the exothermic polymerization, the produced heat was accumulated in the batch reactor and thus the reaction was accelerated. The batch operation had higher conversion after the reaction time of 40 min compared to the continuous-flow processing (Figure 8a). In particular, for the recipe of BA100−DVB0−DDT0 to prepare l-PBA, the higher the polymerization heat production rate was, the worse temper- ature control would be in the batch reactor. In this case, Đ was 3.4 in the batch operation, larger than that of 2.1 in the microreactor (Figure S6a). Such a low dispersity value obtained from the continuous operation was similar to Iwasaki's report,46 as the microreactor was suitable for the MWD control in highly exothermic systems. Moreover, the Mark−Houwink plots of l-PBA samples from batch and continuous operations overlapped at the molecular weight region below 200 kg/mol, and then the intrinsic viscosity of the l-PBA sample from the flask was clearly lower than that from the microreactor (Figure S6b), which might be attributed to the existence of long-chain branches in the batch process. For the polymerization of BA at high temperatures (>343 K), linear primary chains could be transformed to secondary and tertiary macroradicals because of backbiting (intramolecular chain transfer to polymer) and subsequent β- scission,47 and the following macroradicals' propagation led to the formation of both short and long chain branches.

composed of a perfluoroalkoxy (PFA) tubing (IDEX Health & Science) with 1 mm inner diameter and 5.2 m length. A high- pressure syringe pump (New Era Pump System, NE-1200) was applied to introduce the reaction mixture into the micro- reactor. A 40 psi backpressure regulator was positioned inline after the microreactor to prevent solvent loss from evaporation. The microreactor system was immersed in a water bath to maintain a set temperature. 2.2. Synthesis Procedure for Continuous Solution Polymerization. For all polymerization processes, the content of monomers in the reaction mixture was 30 wt %. A homogeneous solution was prepared by adding AIBN, DVB, DDT, and toluene into a dried flask sealed with a rubber septum, and then purging by N2 for 30 min. The microreactor was flushed with dry toluene to purge moisture and oxygen existing inside the system. Then, the reaction mixture was introduced into the microreactor system by a syringe pump. After the flow inside the capillary reached a stable state, the eﬄuent from the microreactor outlet was collected by a sample vial immersed in the ice water mixture to rapidly quench the polymerization process. The composition of the b-PBA could be controlled by changing the molar contents of the branching agent and the chain transfer agent, which were represented by the recipe of BA100−DVBm−DDTn (the subscripts m and n denote the DVB and DDT mole dosages compared to BA, and the molar ratio of AIBN to BA was kept at 1%). The

processing showed higher intrinsic viscosity at the same molecular weight, that is, lower branching degree than that from the microreactor (Figure 8c). This could be attributed to the higher mixing eﬃciency in the microreactor. That is, the process from the primary chain to the slightly branched chain and then to the highly branched chain was less aﬀected by the mass transport limitation in the microreactor, which is considered to have a pretty significant eﬀect on the final branching degree. However, for the batch processing, the coupling reaction was restricted by the diﬀusion distance, which would reduce the probability of the contact between chains containing suspended double bonds. In short, the polymers prepared in the microreactor have higher branching eﬃciency because of the reduced diﬀusion pathway; mean- while, possible side reactions such as uncontrollable branches' formation from linear primary chains are avoided benefiting from more homogeneous temperature control. 3.5. Branched Polymerization Performance under a Miniemulsion System in the Microreactor. From the aforementioned branched polymerization kinetics in a solution system, it was found that increasing the amount of branching agent was advantageous for increasing the branching degree, while sacrificing the apparent reaction rate. This dilemma was tried to be solved by utilizing the emulsion system. In emulsion polymerization, each radical is confined to a nanoparticle in the dispersed phase. This is beneficial for suppressing bimolecular termination, resulting in higher polymerization rate and molecular weight.52 However, phase separation and coagu- lation are prone to happen during the emulsion polymerization in tubular reactors without continuous stirring.53 We turned to utilize the high shear device, as the monomer phase in the pre- emulsion was further broken up, with the diameter of dispersed droplets to submicron level, resulting in stable miniemulsion systems for the following polymerization in microreactors.54 In our case, the prepared miniemulsion could be stored for at least 2 months without sedimentation or phase separation. Taking the recipe of BA100−DVB5−DDT2 for example, as shown in Figure 9a, the miniemulsion polymerization took only 15 min to reach over 90% monomer conversion, which was significantly faster than the solution polymerization. Also, the viscosity in the miniemulsion system was lower (Figure 9b), with the viscosity of the output latex below 45 cP even at the monomer conversion of 97%. The blockage happened when the residence time was prolonged to 30 min, indicating that the miniemulsion system was close to the gel point, which was, however, delayed at a very high monomer conversion (>99%). The particle size distribution for all latex samples was unimodal (Figure 9c), and the volume-weighted mean particle

Numerous references have reported about the use of microreactors for preparing polymers with high yield, uniform, and well-defined properties. Polymers with various structures, such as linear, star,28 cyclic29,30 multiblock,31,32 and gradient polymers33 have been synthesized in microreactors, usually exhibiting more precisely controllable molecular weights or more specific structures than those obtained from batch counterparts.34

Further information on the polymerization kinetics of BA, the heat transfer analysis for the microreactor, and the mechanism of side reactions (PDF) ■AUTHOR INFORMATION

Figure 4. Monomer conversion vs residence time (a) and viscosity of the polymer solution vs monomer conversion (b) of PBA samples collected from the microreactor.

Figure 1 shows the schematic diagram of the experimental setup for synthesizing PBA. The capillary microreactor was

