In microreactors, the flow rate is an important factor in controlling the flow pattern and influencing the mixing efficiency. The nitration

dH Hydraulic diameter of the microchannel inlet, m q Volumetric flow rate ratio of organic liquid to aqueous solution VR Volume of the microchannel internal, mL C0 A Fluid-phase inlet reactant concentration, mol⋅L-1

where C0 A, ρM, μM, φ and nA, are the fluid-phase inlet reactant concen­ tration, the average density of the two immiscible liquid phases, the average viscosity of the two immiscible liquid phases, the volume frac­ tion, and the amount of substance. dH is equivalent diameter of the microchannel inlet, 1.13 × 10-3 m; VR is microchannel total internal volume, 30 mL. The fluid properties of o-xylene and nitric acid param­ eters were presented in Table 2. The dimensionless number of Reynolds number (Re), Capillary number (Ca), and Dean number (De) describing the flow behavior and mass transfer behavior of the two-phase liquid in the microchannel are expressed as follows [31]:

In order to understand the mass transfer performance of the micro­ reactor, a mathematical model for calculating the volumetric mass transfer coefficient was established. The mass balance of the o-xylene nitration reaction in the microreactor can be expressed as Eq. (13) [32,33].

A schematic diagram of the micro-reaction system set-up for the o xylene nitration reaction is shown in Fig. 1. The micro-reaction system is made up of four primary units: feed unit, reaction unit, quenching unit, and separation unit. The o-xylene solution and nitric acid solution in the feeding unit were introduced into the microchannel reaction unit as the dispersed phase and the continuous phase, respectively, using two high precision metering pumps (Sanotac-MPF0502C, Shanghai, China; flow rate, 0–100.00 mL⋅min−1; pressure range, 0–4 MPa). Subsequently, the o-xylene and nitric acid solutions passed through the pre-cooling coil (PTFE, inner diameter: 1 mm) into the microreactor for rapid mixing and reaction, respectively. The reaction unit consisted of a set of micro­ channel plates with a heart cell structure, as shown in Fig. 2 (Shandong Weijing Chemical Technology Co., Ltd.; total internal volume: 30 mL; material: Hastelloy). The temperature control of the reaction unit was maintained by high and low-temperature circulation equipment (GDSZ 50L/-30 ◦C, Zhengzhou Ruihan Instrument Co., Ltd., China) to keep the temperature of the reaction process stable. The residence time was ob­ tained by varying the flow rate or increasing the number of channel plates. After the reaction, an aqueous solution was introduced at the outlet of the microchannel plate for the quenching reaction by a high precision metering pump, and the entire quenching unit (PTFE, length: 2 m; inner diameter: 1 mm) was submerged in an ice-water bath. Finally, the quenched mixture enters the separation unit for static sep­ aration. The organic phase is located in the upper layer containing nitro compounds and o-xylene, and the lower layer is the aqueous phase of nitric acid. The organic layer is washed with NaOH aqueous solution and deionized water, separately, and then dried with Na2SO4 to obtain the

Q Volumetric feed flow rate, mL⋅min−1

conversion rate. By fitting, it was calculated that the reaction would not continue when the nitric acid concentration is below 70 %. Based on this result, this result enables one to derive the aqueous flow rate necessary for quenching. On the grounds of the result, one can safely quench the nitric acid concentration at the outlet of the microreactor by diluting it below 70 % under low-temperature conditions. This improvisation bolsters the safety of the nitration reaction, curbing the occurrence of secondary reactions.

Nitration reactions are extensively studied in organic synthesis despite their notorious dangers, high reaction rates, and heterogeneous reaction systems. To date, most industrial nitration reactions rely on conventional batch reactors characterized by low mass transfer rates and limited reaction conditions. In contrast, microreactors represent a valuable technology for intensifying such nitration reactions. In this work, we established a continuous flow system of o-xylene nitration and determined the kinetics and mass transfer. The effects of mixing performance, nitric acid concentration, molar ratio, reaction temperature, and residence time on the process safety were investigated separately. The experimental data is supported by dimensionless number calculations, providing a more comprehensive understanding of the nitration reaction's transport and reaction performance in a heart-shaped microreactor. Remarkably, the residence time of the heart-shaped microreactor was reduced by an order of magnitude, while the volumetric mass transfer coefficient was improved by several orders of magnitude compared to conventional stirred tank reactors. Moreover, the spent nitric acid could be efficiently recovered and reused after concentration, further enhancing the sustainability and cost-effectiveness of the process. Our findings demonstrate the significant potential of microreactors for intensifying nitration reactions and paving the way for the design and optimization of more efficient and safer synthetic processes.

Keywords: Nitration Microreactor Kinetics Mass transfer

3.6. Mass transfer in the nitration process in the microreactor

