performance by using microreactors remains (see Fig. 5b). Moreover, the current state-of-the-art microreactor design, far from being optimized regarding system size miniatur- ization, still has space-time yields, comparable to those of the laboratory bubble column, when referred to the overall reactor volume. Concerning safety issues, the use of micro- reactors allows reduction of the technical ex

To date, a large part of the microreactor volume has to be designated to achieve ¯uid tightness. In a ®rst step, a practicable solution was provided by applying ¯at sealing techniques which inevitably need large areas for build-up of sealing pressure. The resulting large contribution of parts, not related to chemical reaction, to the overall reactor volume is typical for present microreactors, whe

unit comprising an array of parallel microchannels, two types were utilized, namely platelets of 50 mm50 mm and 300 mm100 mm channel cross-section, in the follow- ing referred to as `narrow' and `wide' channels. More details on design criteria and microreactor assembly are given in reference [13]. It is the aim of the following discussion to give a detailed analysis of the reaction performance o

the narrow (50 mm50 mm) and wide (100 mm300 mm) microchannels, and the laboratory bubble column (series A, Tables 1±3). Nearly constant selectivities are found for the ®rst two microreactors, whereas the corresponding data decrease with conversion for the micro bubble column using wide channels and the laboratory bubble column. Remark- ably, the performance of the falling ®lm microreactor is cle

For a detailed analysis of the performance of the reactors, the representation of the experimental data as a selectivity- conversion diagram or space-time yield is recommended [22]. The ®rst type of analysis solely re¯ects the in¯uence of reaction engineering on the underlying chemistry, whereas an economic evaluation, in terms of reactor throughput, can be given in the second case. In Fig. 4, a s

Even greater control over reaction temperature and, in addition, reactant mixing should be achievable by using microfabricated reaction devices, so-called microreactors, since high gradients for heat and mass transfer can be utilized, due to small diffusion distances within the micro- channels [8]. These transport enhancements, in general, allow improvement in the performance of reactions which ar

micromixing unit into account, giving an idealized reactor geometry, space-time yield data corrected for the reactor construction material result (see Fig. 5b). This idealized reactor geometry, however, represents not the current state- of-the-art design, but corresponds to a miniaturized proto- type of future fabrication generation. Data corrected accord- ing to the overall volume of the current 

Summary: The paragraph discusses the development of flow-chemistry processes using microreactors for gas-liquid contacting applications. Two types of microreactors are mentioned - falling ®lm and micro bubble column reactors. The experiments were conducted with acetonitrile films in the falling ®lm reactor, while the micro bubble column was used to study segmented ¯ow patterns at low gas super®cial velocities. No specific reaction type, key reactants/solvent/catalyst, products, or outcomes are mentioned in this paragraph.

®rst proof of feasibility using existing contacting compo- nents, originally designed for liquid/liquid extraction. Based on this knowledge, the ®rst integrated gas/liquid microreac- tion systems were built, termed a falling ®lm microreactor (FFMR) and a micro bubble column (MBC) [11,13] (see Fig. 1a and b) made of stainless steel. In the meantime Chambers et al. [14] have successfully tested a si

Liquid volume flow (1.1 mmol C7H8 in 1 ml solvent) (ml/h)

