performance by using microreactors remains (see Fig. 5b). Moreover, the current state-of-the-art microreactor design, far from being optimized regarding system size miniatur- ization, still has space-time yields, comparable to those of the laboratory bubble column, when referred to the overall reactor volume. Concerning safety issues, the use of micro- reactors allows reduction of the technical expenditure for laboratory experiments, which handle only small sample volumes, e.g. for gathering analytical data. The space-time yield of the microreactors is dependent on the set of operating conditions chosen. The most important parameters for an optimization of this ®gure are the ratio of gaseous to liquid reactant, temperature, solvent, residence time as well as ¯uorine and substrate concentration. The in¯uence of the variation of these parameters on target values such as conversion or selectivity, being proportional to the space-time yield, is discussed below.

To date, a large part of the microreactor volume has to be designated to achieve ¯uid tightness. In a ®rst step, a practicable solution was provided by applying ¯at sealing techniques which inevitably need large areas for build-up of sealing pressure. The resulting large contribution of parts, not related to chemical reaction, to the overall reactor volume is typical for present microreactors, whereas for conventional reactors this can be neglected. Therefore, different de®nitions of space-time yields are used in Fig. 5, based on experiments of series A. The ®rst approach solely refers to the channel volume, i.e. the volume where reaction takes place (see Fig. 5a). Due to the principle of yielding small ¯uid thicknesses, inherent to microreactors, the reaction channels are separated from each other by channel walls. Taking this volume and that of the

unit comprising an array of parallel microchannels, two types were utilized, namely platelets of 50 mm50 mm and 300 mm100 mm channel cross-section, in the follow- ing referred to as `narrow' and `wide' channels. More details on design criteria and microreactor assembly are given in reference [13]. It is the aim of the following discussion to give a detailed analysis of the reaction performance of the microreactors with regard to direct ¯uorination of toluene and to compare the respective results to technical benchmarks. In addition, it is aimed to gather ®rst hints for a performance optimization of the microreactors by means of variation of operating conditions. In this context, considerable efforts were made in order to get precise analytical data on conversion, yield, and selectivity.

the narrow (50 mm50 mm) and wide (100 mm300 mm) microchannels, and the laboratory bubble column (series A, Tables 1±3). Nearly constant selectivities are found for the ®rst two microreactors, whereas the corresponding data decrease with conversion for the micro bubble column using wide channels and the laboratory bubble column. Remark- ably, the performance of the falling ®lm microreactor is clearly superior to that of the laboratory benchmark. In contrast, the micro bubble column using narrow channels exceeds the selectivities of the laboratory bubble column only at high conversion. The diagram for the micro bubble column equipped with wide channels is not well understood currently for the following reasons. Since the corresponding diffusion dis- tances for mass and heat transport increase when using larger channels, it was expected that measurements with this device should result in lower conversions and selectiv- ities. Surprisingly, the selectivities are higher than for the micro bubble column with narrow channels when comparing values obtained at ®xed conversions. For conversion, the smaller bubble column gives superior performance, even though the residence times applied were shorter. However, the origin of the low selectivities remains unclear and requires more detailed information on hydrodynamics and transport phenomena. The same holds for one data point, referring to the highest conversion, of the micro bubble column using the wide channels. The corresponding selectivity seems to be unu- sually low and might be caused by a change of the ¯ow pattern. Although this information can, for experimental reasons, not be easily obtained for the ¯uorine/acetonitrile system, a ¯ow pattern map determined using isopropanol as liquid indicates a transition between segmented and annular ¯ow for a corresponding set of operating conditions. For these reasons, it was decided to omit the data record of this microreactor from the following plots. However, it has to be emphasized that, concerning the conclusions drawn below,

For a detailed analysis of the performance of the reactors, the representation of the experimental data as a selectivity- conversion diagram or space-time yield is recommended [22]. The ®rst type of analysis solely re¯ects the in¯uence of reaction engineering on the underlying chemistry, whereas an economic evaluation, in terms of reactor throughput, can be given in the second case. In Fig. 4, a selectivity-conversion diagram is given for the falling ®lm microreactor, the micro bubble column utilizing

Even greater control over reaction temperature and, in addition, reactant mixing should be achievable by using microfabricated reaction devices, so-called microreactors, since high gradients for heat and mass transfer can be utilized, due to small diffusion distances within the micro- channels [8]. These transport enhancements, in general, allow improvement in the performance of reactions which are not carried out under a kinetically controlled regime, e.g. fast reactions coupled to fast side reactions. If the reaction is run in a multiphase system, the potential bene®t of using microreactors may even be ampli®ed. This scenario ideally holds for gas phase reactions on solid catalysts and the resulting improvements have been demonstrated recently by many authors and for a large variety of applications [9,10]. The criteria sketched above obviously are also met by gas/ liquid reactions. Two approaches paved the way for further investigations in this ®eld. In the ®rst reference, a selection of possible microreactor designs for ef®cient gas/liquid contacting was presented and their potential applications were outlined [11]. The second paper aimed at giving a sound theoretical basis for this ®eld by analyzing various cases of diffusion hindrance [12]. This was completed by a

micromixing unit into account, giving an idealized reactor geometry, space-time yield data corrected for the reactor construction material result (see Fig. 5b). This idealized reactor geometry, however, represents not the current state- of-the-art design, but corresponds to a miniaturized proto- type of future fabrication generation. Data corrected accord- ing to the overall volume of the current design will be discussed as well, but are not shown in Fig. 5. Space-time yields, based on the real reaction volume (see Fig. 5a) of both microreactors are orders of magnitude higher than those of the laboratory benchmark. This increase is mainly caused by much lower residence times achievable by using these microreactors, the volume corrected yields of both types of devices being in the same range. While for completion of the reaction about 3 h are needed in case of the laboratory bubble column, enhancement of heat and mass transfer by miniaturization enables ¯uorination to proceed in a few seconds. Even when correcting the data with respect to the idealized reactor geometry, a signi®cant improvement of

microreactors was already obtained prior to this publication [13] and has been completed during the present study. Speci®c interfacial areas were calculated using assumptions from ®lm theory [15] and from measurements performed in millimeter wide capillaries [16]. Experimental data were gathered by means of an optical analysis technique [13] and a chemical method, sul®te oxidation [17]. As a technical benchmark, published data from conventional gas/liquid contacting reactors, e.g. bubble or spray columns, were used [18,19]. Table 5 lists data of interfacial areas measured for the microreactors investigated and compared to the technical benchmarks. It was shown in previous experiments that ®lms down to 25 mm thickness can be generated in the falling ®lm micro- reactor, using isopropanol as liquid. As shown in Table 5, the corresponding speci®c interfacial area amounts to 40,000 m2/m3 which is far larger than for conventional gas/liquid contacting equipment [18,19]. In the experiments described here, acetonitrile ®lms of about 30±37 mm were utilized corresponding to a speci®c interfacial area of about 33,000 and 27,000 m2/m3, respectively. Investigations concerning the micro bubble column focused on the determination of the ¯ow pattern. From measurements in capillaries, it was likely that a segmented ¯ow pattern (referred to as Taylor ¯ow or bubble train ¯ow) is established, i.e. bubbles of a cross-section close to that of the channels separated by liquid plugs and surrounded by thin liquid ®lms. First measurements using the micro bubble column with wide channels (300 mm100 mm) show that this ¯ow pattern is found at low gas super®cial velocities (see Fig. 2).

®rst proof of feasibility using existing contacting compo- nents, originally designed for liquid/liquid extraction. Based on this knowledge, the ®rst integrated gas/liquid microreac- tion systems were built, termed a falling ®lm microreactor (FFMR) and a micro bubble column (MBC) [11,13] (see Fig. 1a and b) made of stainless steel. In the meantime Chambers et al. [14] have successfully tested a simple microreactor for the direct ¯uorination of 1,3-dicarbonyl compounds, but no yield or selectivity data have been reported. The FFMR, developed for this study, generates a thin falling ®lm of several 10 mm thickness ¯owing by means of gravity forces. This is performed on a platelet comprising a large number of microchannels of 100 mm300 mm cross- section. By changing volume ¯ow, control can be exerted over ®lm thickness. The micro bubble column consists of a mixing and a reaction unit. Various mixers containing interdigital channel arrays of dimensions from a few micro- meters to a few tens of micrometers were tested. For the experiments described in this article, only one device was used equipped with 20 mm deep gas and liquid feeding channels 7 and 20 mm wide, respectively. For the reaction

Liquid volume flow (1.1 mmol C7H8 in 1 ml solvent) (ml/h)

