Fig. 2. Effect of (a) micromixer inner diameter, (b) microreactor inner diameter, (c) fluid flow rate on 4-MNT conversion.

3.2. Mixing performance of the continuous-flow microreactor system

actor system, the effects of the inner diameter of the micromixer and microreactor, and the fluid flow rate on the conversion of 4-MNT were investigated, respectively. First, the micromixers 1 (with inner diameters of 0.15 mm, 0.25 mm and 0.5 mm) and the capillary microreactors (with inner diameters of 0.5 mm, 0.75 mm and 1.0 mm) were used to explore the optimal equipment that could achieve a better mixing effect. The results are shown in Fig. 2(a) and 2(b). The results prove that as the inner diameters of the micromixer and microreactor increase, the conversion of 4-MNT decreases under the same reac- tion conditions. Under the same flow rate, the smaller the inner diameter is, the greater the fluid velocity is. The turbulence in the fluid will be more intense. The more sufficient the fluid is mixed, the more conducive to the occurrence of the reaction. Therefore, a better mixing effect was achieved in the micromixer and microreactor with smaller inner diameters. According to the above results, a micromixer with an inner diameter of 0.15 mm and a microreactor with an inner diameter of 0.5 mm were utilized for the next step of the research. To achieve the best mixing effect in the selected micromixer and microreactor, the influence of the fluid flow rate on the conver- sion of 4-MNT was explored. The results are shown in Fig. 2(c). According to the results, when the fluid volume flow rate is lower than 1.0 mL/min, the conversion of 4-MNT increases with increas- ing of the fluid volume flow rate. When the fluid volume flow rate is higher than 1.0 mL/min, with the increase in the volume flow rate, the conversion of 4-MNT is almost unchanged. The results show that when the volume flow rate is increased to a certain value in the selected reaction devices, the mixing effect achieved in the selected micromixer and microreactor has almost no further influence on the reaction rate. Therefore, all the subsequent kinet- ics experiments were studied under the optimal mixing conditions.

 Constructing a continuous-flow microreactor system to obtain kinetics of nitration.

In this work, a complete continuous-flow microreactor system has been constructed. The kinetics of 4-MNT nitration were studied by means of a homogeneous reaction in the continuous-flow microreactor. The solubility of 4-MNT in concentrated H2SO4 solu- tion was measured first to ensure that the reaction was carried out

The homogeneous solution of 4-MNT dissolved in specific con- centration H2SO4 (0.5 g / (0.5 + 160) g) was prepared by stirring for 12 h. According to the molar ratio of nitric acid and 4-MNT, nitric acid was also dissolved in 160 g the same concentration H2SO4 to obtain the mixed acid. The continuous-flow microreactor system (Fig. 1) contains two high-pressure syringe pumps (Chemyx fusion 6000, America), pre- treatment coiled capillaries (stainless steel, inner diameter of 0.5 mm, length of 1 m), micromixers (stainless three-way, inner diameter of 0.15 mm, 0.25 mm and 0.5 mm), a capillary microreac- tor (PTFE, inner diameter of 0.5 mm, 0.75 mm, and 1.0 mm), and one metering pump (2 PB-3020, Beijing Xingda, China). The pre- treatment, reaction and quenching modules were immersed in a temperature-controlled bath (CORIO CD-200F, Julabo, Germany). The homogeneous solution and mixed acid were delivered through high-pressure syringe pumps at the same volume flow rate, respectively. The two fluids flow separately through the pre- treatment coiled capillaries to reach a preset temperature and through micromixer 1 to microreactor system for several seconds. The change in reaction residence time was realized by adjusting the length of the capillary microchannel. The reaction was quenched by water at milliseconds at the outlet of the microchan- nel reactor.

The kinetics of p-nitrotoluene nitration with mixed acid is important to industrial process design and safety control. However, it's difficult to acquire accurate kinetic data and no kinetics study has ever been reported before because of fast, highly exothermic and heterogeneous characteristics. In this work, a continuous-flow microreactor system including a micromixer, a capillary reactor and an online quench- ing module was designed to carry out the nitration under a homogeneous reaction condition. The homo- geneous nitration can completely eliminate mass transfer resistance between phases, and accurately control reaction temperature and residence time in the continuous-flow microreactor system. The observed reaction rate constants separately based on HNO3 and NO2 +, pre-exponential factor and activa- tion energy of p-nitrotoluene nitration were obtained and a general method was established to collect kinetics data for such a kind of fast and highly exothermal nitration reactions.  2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

1974; Cox and Strachan, 1972b; Su et al., 2011) benzene, (Biggs and White, 2010; Quadros et al., 2005) nitrotoluene, (Modak and Juvekar, 1995; Nunziata et al., 1983; Su et al., 2011; Westheimer and Kharasch, 1946) and chlorobenzene. (Cox and Strachan, 1971) However, an accurate kinetics study of 4-MNT nitration has not ever been reported before. More studies on the kinetics of this reaction should be performed. Microreactor could have excellent transfer and mixing perfor- mances because of its micron or submicron characteristic dimen- sions. (Chen et al., 2021; Cui et al., 2020; Han et al., 2019; Sheng et al., 2021; Yan et al., 2021) In addition, the residence time can be accurately controlled in a continuous-flow microreactor system. (Barbosa et al., 2005) These advantages in kinetics studies have been proven by many reported heterogeneous nitration reactions. (Kulkarni et al., 2009; Lan and Lu, 2021; Li et al., 2017; Wen et al., 2018) However, the mass transfer resistance in liquid–liquid reac- tion system cannot be eliminated completely. It is reported that 4- MNT has a certain solubility in 95% H2SO4 at 303 K without sul- fonation, and a homogeneous nitration reaction system can be formed. (Andreozzi et al., 1993; Rahaman et al., 2010; Rahaman et al., 2007) In a homogeneous reaction system, the mass transfer resistance between phases could be eliminated. The high mass ratio of sulfuric acid to 4-MNT can not only ensure the formation of homogenous solution, but also effectively reduce the adiabatic temperature rise of the system, which is an effective method to control the reaction temperature. Therefore, more accurate kinetic data of homogeneous 4-MNT nitration in a continuous-flow microreactor system may be obtained. Unfortunately, this work has not ever been tested before. In this study, a continuous-flow microreactor system including a micromixer, a capillary reactor and an online quenching module has been constructed to determine the kinetics of 4-MNT nitration under a homogeneous condition. The requirement of constant tem- perature was satisfied by adjusting the mass ratio of H2SO4 to 4- MNT. It can be proved by the calculation of the adiabatic temper- ature rise of the system. The mass transfer resistance between phases can be eliminated completely. In the microreactor system, the effect of mixing performance, temperature, residence time and molar ratio of reactants on nitration were investigated in detail and the reaction kinetic parameters including observed reaction rate constants separately based on HNO3 and NO2 +, preexponential factor and activation energy as well as their confidence intervals were obtained.

Keywords: P-nitrotoluene nitration Homogeneous Kinetics Continuous Microflow

Where DT is the adiabatic temperature rise, Qr is the reaction heat of 4-MNT nitration reaction, n4-MNT is the initial molar of 4-MNT, cp-H2SO4 is the specific heat capacity of H2SO4, mH2SO4 is the total mass of H2SO4 in the microchannel, and km ¼ mH2SO4=m4MNT.

