The continuous flow monolithic microreactor was constructed as follows: The monolith (5 mm × 7 mm) was positioned into a heat shrinkable PTFE tube of 30 mm and 60 mm in length, which was heated to shrink the PTFE tubing until a tight fit to the monolith was produced. An aqueous solution of EO (2.9 µM) and reducing agent NaBH4 (0.018 M) was pumped with a peristaltic pump through the microreactor at a constant flow rate of 2.1 mL/min. The product solution was passed through a UV cuvette flow cell of 4.5 mL capacity to analyze the reduction of EO using a Cary 50 Scan UV-Vis spectrophotometer in the range of 200–800 nm. Calibration experiments showed that the absorbance recorded at 521 nm was linear for concentrations up to 2.9 µM, corresponding to an absorbance of 2.5.

Processes 2015, 3 can be continuously varied and monitored in flow systems during catalytic processes, greatly accelerating reaction kinetic studies and process optimization [1,2]. Additionally, flow microreactors have advantages, such as enhanced atom efficiency, selectivity, yield and purity of products, reproducibility, increased turn-over-number (TON), turn-over-frequency (TOF), process safety, shorter development cycles and rapid scale-up from lab to pilot plant [3]. The use of water as the solvent in such reactors is particularly attractive in cutting operating costs.

The washing tests of the Ag/SiO2 and Ag/Co3O4 monoliths were carried out in a continuous flow microreactor. The fixed bed of the continuous monolithic microreactor was constructed as mentioned in Section 2.6. Neat hexane was pumped through the microreactor with a peristaltic pump at a constant flow rate of 2.1 mL/min. The quantitative analysis of the washing of Ag from the support was determined by measuring the Ag ion concentration in the effluent using a Perkin Elmer AAnalyst 400 atomic absorption spectrophotometer.

T.V.K. and M.G.B. designed the study and constructed the flow reactor. Y.H. carried out the catalyst preparation and the flow studies. Y.H., T.V.K. and M.G.B. carried out the data analysis and preparation of the manuscript.

The continuous monolithic microreactor set-up used is shown in Figure 2 and incorporates a UV-visible spectrophotometer as the detector.

Ag/SiO2and Ag/Co3O4-Based Monolithic Flow Microreactors for Hydrogenation of Dyes: Their Activity and Stability

Processes 2015, 3 150 min to 205 min with the addition of NaBH4. Our earlier work with MO and MB confirmed that reaction with NaBH4 directly converted these dyes to their hydrogenation products and did not indicate any changes in the extent of dye adsorption. Similarly, batch studies of EO confirmed the stoichiometric conversion to the products, with no indication of changes in the extent of EO adsorption on Ag. Accordingly, the difference between the amount of EO leaving the microreactor in the absence and presence of NaBH4 can be ascribed to the catalytic reaction and conversion of EO to products.

Heterogeneous catalysis is an important component in the development of atom and energy-efficient chemical transformations. The design of processes that are highly selective, energy efficient and environmentally benign requires detailed knowledge of the reaction kinetics, thorough evaluation of the catalytic materials and rapid optimization of the reaction conditions. Microreactors enable precise control of reaction parameters (e.g., temperature, pressure), and the reaction conditions

Careful control experiments were carried out to confirm the stability of the experimental setup. The EO hydrogenation was performed in the absence of the monolithic catalyst using NaBH4 as the reducing agent under flow conditions. The absorbance was recorded at 525 nm, the absorption maximum of EO. The absorbance (A) vs. time (t) plot is shown in Figure 3. No change in the absorbance of the initial EO solution was observed over 600 min. This clearly indicated that the rate of the reaction of EO is negligible in the absence of catalyst.

Processes 2015, 3 the range of 235–270 nm were seen in the spent catalyst. Overall, there is a significant decrease in the number of Ag nanoparticles, accompanied by an increase in average nanoparticle size, as well as the observation of agglomerates for the spent catalyst.

Hydrogenation of EO dye has been studied to evaluate the activity and stability of these materials in a continuous reactor (Scheme 1).

Processes 2015, 3 differences in metal-support interactions or could simply be a result of how the initially different particle size distribution changes during the course of the reaction.

We have recently shown in batch reactions that silver (Ag) nanoparticles supported on hierarchically porous SiO2 and Co3O4 monoliths (Ag/SiO2 and Ag/Co3O4, respectively) are catalytically active for the hydrogenation of methyl orange (MO) and methylene blue (MB) dyes with rate constants that indicate the potential of studying these reactions in a continuous flow microreactor [26]. Herein, for the first time, we report the hydrogenation of eosin-Y (EO) using Ag/SiO2 and Ag/Co3O4 hierarchically porous monoliths as microreactors in a continuous flow system. The use of a microreactor allows us to assess the stability of these catalysts and explore the origins of the decreases observed in the initial catalytic activities.

From the data, it is clear that for the hierarchically porous catalysts studied, the loss of catalytic activity is caused by both washing and leaching of the Ag nanoparticles. For non-polar solvents where leaching is expected to be much less prevalent, agglomeration may not produce such a large change in metal surface area as it would for aqueous media, since there would be less Ostwald ripening [28]. This would predict that in non-aqueous media, the decrease in catalytic activity would be closer to proportionate to the amount of metal lost. It is also likely that the flow rate could impact the fraction of particles that are washed off, as higher flow rates would be expected to dislodge more strongly-bound particles.

Figures 4 and 5 also show the absorbance vs. time plots when NaBH4 is added to the EO solution. For Ag/SiO2, complete removal of EO from the solution increases from 100 min in the absence of NaBH4 to 195 min in the presence of NaBH4. For Ag/Co3O4, complete removal of EO increases from

Department of Chemistry, the University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, AL 35487-0336, USA; E-Mails: yhakat@crimson.ua.edu (Y.H.); trupti.kotbagi@gmail.com (T.V.K.)

Number of Ag Nanoparticles Lost from Support, % Ag Leached from Support in Aqueous Reaction Medium, %

Both SiO2 and Co3O4 monoliths showed the presence of similar network of 10–15 µm macropores, consistent with the replication into Co3O4 of the macropore structure of the SiO2 template. The formation of Ag nanoparticles on the macropore surfaces of the SiO2 and Co3O4 replica monoliths can clearly be seen in Figure 1. These images were taken with a back-scatter detector, so that brighter

The efficiency of heterogeneous catalysts depends on various properties, such as surface area, the pore size of the support and the particle size of the active metals on the support. Hierarchically porous materials have interconnecting pore networks at multiple length scales, making them particularly attractive for reactions that are mass transport limited. When fabricated as monoliths, i.e., as single pieces, they are particularly attractive as continuous flow microreactors, providing superior mass diffusion and increasing the accessibility of the fluids (reactants and products) during organic transformations [4]. A wide variety of hierarchically porous monoliths [5], such as hierarchically porous zeolites (SiO2/Al2O3, aluminophosphate (AlPO), silico-aluminophosphate SAPO) [6], hierarchically porous metal oxides (SiO2 [7–10], Co3O4 [8–10], NiO [8–10], ZnO [11], TiO2 [12]) and hierarchically porous carbon‐based catalysts [13,14], have been studied.

A similar analysis for Ag/Co3O4 is shown in Figure 8. Again, the distribution of Ag nanoparticles is bimodal, even more so than for Ag/SiO2, with a majority of the Ag nanoparticles having diameters <52 nm. Along with the fine Ag nanoparticles, there is also a broad distribution of Ag nanoparticles centered at 106–131 nm, extending out to 368 nm. The number of small (<52 nm) Ag nanoparticles in the spent Ag/Co3O4 was found to decrease to 50% of that in the fresh Ag/Co3O4. Similarly, the average size distribution for the larger Ag nanoparticles was also observed to shift to larger average particle sizes, with some agglomerates in the 369–394 nm range being observed in the spent Ag/Co3O4. The overall number of Ag nanoparticles was also observed to decrease. Ag/Co3O4 shows the same trends as found for Ag/SiO2: fewer, larger, Ag nanoparticles in the spent catalyst compared to fresh catalyst. Ag/Co3O4 shows a larger overall decrease in the number of Ag nanoparticles, which may reflect

