20 min after the imposed steps giving the system enough time to reach a steady-state, if any. The construction of a microreactor suitable for direct fluorina- tion reactions has several challenges. The microreactor needs to be accurately designed and dimensioned at a microscale level. It must also be constructed by using corrosion resistant materials able to withstand a hostile environment, at extremely high temperature for a long time. The microreactor used for the experiments (Fig. 1) is based on a design of de Mas et al. [24,26] and has a volume of 65 mm3 and a surface/volume ratio of 1  104 m1. The original microreactor was realized in silicon and nickel coated, but to withstand the corrosion issues associated with pure fluorine and carbonyl-difluoride and to increase the heat transferred via conduction, alloys like AISI 316 and R400 were used in the present version. The reactor plates were machined via electron discharge while the gaskets were water-jet cut from a perfluoro-elastomer (FFKM) sheet. The microreactor resembled a very small heat exchanger and was constructed by assembling many stacked parts: the enclosure consisted of two thick plates of stainless steel that integrates the temperature sensors, process inlets, outlets, and coolant ports. The internal combined stainless steel reaction and cooling plates machined with gas and coolant distribution systems were inserted between two counter-plates and separated with FFKM gaskets as illustrated in Fig. 1. Each reaction-cooling plate contained on the front side 20 parallel microchannels for reaction and 20 cross flow parallel microchannels for cooling on the back. The coolant channels were embedded using a computer controlled milling machine. The reaction channel dimensions were 25 mm long, 400 mm wide and 400 mm deep. To ensure a uniform distribution of the reactants in all the microchannels a neck was machined at the beginning of each channel. The thermal energy produced during the reaction was dispersed from the gas phase through the microreactor plates and dissipated into the cooling fluid (Water, Solvay Specialty Polymers Galden1

without temperature control in the safety vessel, but outside the reactor. This behavior was also confirmed by measuring the temperature increase of the gases in the safety vessel, along with the temperature increase of the tubes connecting the microreactor with the safety vessel. This unstable operative condition was also

Recently a flame-less approach has been patented [18]. It is reported that the two reactants, fluorine and carbon monoxide are continuously bubbled in a continuous stirred-tank reactor (CSTR) filled with a solvent [19]. This system has clearly some critical points, i.e. solvent stability [20] and operability. A good practice to obtain pure carbonyl-difluoride is to reduce the flame temperature by increasing the heat exchange surface. Due to the large amount of heat released during the reaction, the surface/volume ratio of the reactor has to be high, thus the use of a microreactor seems to be a suitable option. In fluorine chemistry, there is a large interest in the development of microreactors for chemical processing [21–25] due to the benefits that this technological device could provide: better reaction control, arithmetic scale-up and higher safety. Herein we report the use of a microreactor to test the highly exothermic gas phase reaction CO + F2 with the aim of better controlling the temperature and increase the reaction selectivity.

Many attempts to obtain a clean stream of COF2 have been carried out in the past by means of the direct fluorination of carbon monoxide with elemental fluorine or by electrochemical fluorination. The reaction is highly exothermic, therefore difficult to control. It can easily develop into a thermal runaway with a poor selectivity. We have successfully circumvented these critical issues by using a stainless steel parallel channel microreactor (surface/volume ratio  1  104 m1, residence time t  0.1 s) for the direct fluorination of carbon monoxide. Its performance in terms of operability and selectivity is compared to that of a standard reactor assembly, namely a fluorine burner reactor coupled with a water cooled heat exchanger. While the microreactor assembly succeeded to control the exothermic reaction, in the same experimental conditions the standard assembly reactor underwent serious corrosion issues that lead to nozzle meltdown lack of selectivity and consequent plant shutdowns.  2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Fig. 6. Product distribution from GC–TCD analyses for the tests at F2/CO = 1.22 at various temperatures. Left: microreactor. Right: standard reactor.

Detailed experiments were performed at constant temperature (18 8C) in both the reactors assembly, standard and microreactor. The carbon monoxide conversion (Fig. 3) is about 30% higher in the microreactor. In both cases the amount of CF3OF produced is linearly proportional to the amount of pure fluorine introduced in the system. However, the amount of trifluoromethyl hypofluorite produced in the microreactor was up to 40% lower than that in the standard reactor test, even at high F2/CO ratio. At stoichiometric flow rates, an unstable operation condition was observed in the standard reactor because at this condition (CF3OF) and (CO) were simultaneously present in the gas phase. This thermodynamically unstable mixture may eventually burn in the heated safety vessel, but no evidence of this has been found. This unstable condition was less evident in the microreactor because the amount of trifluoromethyl hypofluorite and carbon monoxide produced was much lower compared to the trifluor- omethyl hypofluorite and carbon monoxide produced in the standard reactor test (Fig. 4). At constant F2/CO ratio (1.22) another unstable operating condition appears. At temperatures lower than 50 8C (Fig. 4) the reaction performed in the microreactor lacks conversion and selectivity. Under those conditions the COF2 synthesis does not ignite in the microreactor channels, probably also due to the active termination of the radicals on the walls. A mixed stream of fluorine and carbon monoxide then leaves the microreactor and burns

Direct fluorination of carbon monoxide in microreactors

Fig. 4. IR absorbance ratios in the tests performed by varying the temperature at constant stoichiometry (F2/CO = 1.22) for the standard reactor assembly (dashed line) and the microreactor (continuous line). Left: AbsCF3OF=AbsðCOF2Þ. Right: AbsðCOÞ=AbsðCOF2Þ.

Fig. 5. Concentration of COF2 (area basis) in the tests performed by varying the temperature at constant stoichiometry (F2/CO = 1.22) for the standard reactor assembly (dashed line) and the microreactor (continuous line).

Keywords: Carbonyl-difluoride Hypofluorite Synthesis Microreactor Direct fluorination

