■ AUTHOR INFORMATION Corresponding Author *E-mail: jiszhang@tsinghua.edu.cn. ORCID Jisong Zhang: 0000-0002-4925-7355 Notes The authors declare no competing financial interest. ■ ACKNOWLEDGMENTS We gratefully acknowledge the supports of the National Natural Science Foundation of China (21978146), Tsinghua University Initiative Scientific Research Program (2019Z08QCX02), and the State Key Laboratory of Chemical Engineering (SKL-ChE-17T01) on this work. ■ NOMENCLATURE FL liquid flow rate, mL/min FG gas flow rate, sccm P pressure, bar T temperature, K h liquid holdup, − D reactor inner diameter, cm L reactor length, cm CA concentration of DMAOL, mol/L CB concentration of diphenylmethane, mol/L CA0 initial concentration of DMAOL, mol/L X conversion of N-diphenylmethylazetidin-3-ol, m/s2 Ea activation energy, kJ/mol A Arrhenius constant, mol0.47/L0.47·bar0.31·s·gcat Greek letters τ liquid residence time, s ε porosity, − Subscripts G gas L liquid ■ REFERENCES (1) Carey, J. S.; Laffan, D.; Thomson, C.; Williams, M. T. Analysis of the reactions used for the preparation of drug candidate molecules. Org. Biomol. Chem. 2006, 4, 2337−2347. (2) Sartori, G.; Ballini, R.; Bigi, F.; Bosica, G.; Maggi, R.; Righi, P. Protection (and deprotection) of functional groups in organic synthesis by heterogeneous catalysis. Chem. Rev. 2004, 104, 199−250. (3) (a) Albano, G.; Evangelisti, C.; Aronica, L. A. Hydrogenolysis of Benzyl Protected Phenols and Aniline Promoted by Supported Palladium Nanoparticles. ChemistrySelect 2017, 2, 384−388. (b) Ishi- hara, K.; Hiraiwa, Y.; Yamamoto, H. Homogeneous debenzylation using extremely active catalysts: Tris (triflyl) methane, scandium (III) tris (triflyl) methide, and copper (II) tris (triflyl) methide. Synlett 2000, 2000, 80−82. (4) Olah, G. A.; Kobayashi, S.; Tashiro, M. Aromatic substitution. XXX. Friedel-Crafts benzylation of benzene and toluene with benzyl and substituted benzyl halides. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1972, 94, 7448− 7461.

when α is 0.53, the calculated curve agreed well with the experimental values (R2 = 0.99), indicating that the reaction order of DMAOL is 0.53. The value of β is determined by changing the reaction pressure at the same residence time. The liquid holdup is related to the superficial velocities of the gas and liquid. The change of the reaction pressure will lead to an obvious change for the superficial velocity of the gas and corresponding residence time of liquid. To eliminate the eﬀect of reaction pressure on the residence time, the liquid flowrate was varied from 0.58 to 1.04 mL/min according to the model described in the literature16 to ensure the same residence time. Taking α = 0.53, integrating and deforming eq 3, eq 6 was obtained.

was connected to a back pressure regulator (Beijing Xiongchuan Technology Co. Ltd.) to control the system pressure. The mixing of the feeding gas and liquid before the entering the packed-bed reactor greatly aﬀects the stability and reproducibility of the system. To minimize the hydrodynamic instabilities, the reactor structure followed the design which was described in the literature16 and more details about the reactor structure can be found in this paper. The packed tube is made of stainless steel with a length of 20 cm, an outer diameter of 6.35 mm (1/4 in.), and an inner diameter of 4.35 mm. The reactant DMAOL was prepared as a specific concentration in the solvent. The particulate catalysts were filled into the reactor through a funnel and the catalyst bed was packed as tight as possible. The micropacked bed packed with a certain mass of the catalyst was prewetted by the solution, and then H2 was transported into the reactor at a specific flow rate (FG). The Back pressure (P) and the liquid flow rate (FL) were then set to the required values while simultaneously raising the system temperature (T). After waiting for the reaction time, which was at least three times of the liquid residence time (τ), the system achieved a steady state and a sample was collected. When the desired samples were acquired, the water bath was turned oﬀ and the system pressure was reduced to atmospheric pressure. After the system was depressurized, N2 gas was transported through the micropacked-bed reactor to fully remove the residual gas− liquid mixture and ensure that the catalyst was stored in a nitrogen atmosphere. As hydrogenation in μPBRs involves the gas−liquid−solid process, the residence time of liquid τ representing the reaction time should be carefully calculated. According to the definition of liquid holdup in our previous paper,16 τ is calculated by the following equation

very slow with a low conversion of 18.5% after 3 h and 38.1% after 5 h. The main reason is the limited gas−liquid mass transfer rate in the batch reactor. In contrast, because of the larger interfacial area and shorter diﬀusion distance in micropacked reactors, a high conversion of 63% can be obtained with only a short residence time of 1.9 min. In addition, the value of conversion per unit volume per unit time of the micropacked-bed reactor is 100 times that of the batch.

maximum reaction conversion, the catalyst bed was not diluted with alumina sphere fillers (4.3 g Pd(OH)2/Al2O3) and the concentration of the substrate was further improved to 10 wt % in this experiment. As first, the fresh catalyst had a high catalytic activity and the conversion could reach 100% for 70 h. After 70 h, the conversion began to decrease because of the deactivation of the catalyst. The reason of deactivation and the following regeneration method are still unclear and we are still working on them. The most possible reason for the deactivation is the adsorption of substances on the precise metal catalyst because of the strong interaction between amine and the precise metal. To increase the reaction rate, the reaction temperature was gradually increased to maintain the high conversion. After 116 h, the liquid flow rate was decreased from 0.4 to 0.3 mL/min to increase the residence time to ensure the conversion. By increasing the temperature and decreasing the flow rate, the conversion of the substrate could stay above 99.5% for 190 h. After that, the conversion decreased rapidly indicating that a severe catalyst deactivation occurred and the catalyst was required to be replaced or regenerated. From the results in Figure 4, it demonstrates that about 90 g DMAOL can be eﬃciently converted to the product for 1 g Pd(OH)2/Al2O3 catalyst in the micropacked bed and the continuous flow system can achieve an eﬃcient production of 3-azetidinol for 190 h (the temperature and liquid flow rate were changed after 70 h). However, more issues such as heat transfer, gas−liquid mixing, and pressure drop across the packed bed should be carefully considered in the scaling up of this continuous system. Kinetics Study of Hydrogenolysis of DMAOL. Mass Transfer Considerations. In a three-phase catalytic reaction system, the mass transfer typically includes three steps in series: dissolution of H2 in liquid, diﬀusion of dissolved H2 through liquid to the solid catalyst surface, and intraparticle diﬀusion to the active catalytic sites, which can influence the reaction kinetics.23 Therefore, it is important to confirm that the mass transfer limitation can be ignored before determining the kinetic parameters.

Because of the use of pure hydrogen as a reactant, the mass transfer resistance occurring in the gas film side of the gas− liquid interface can be ignored, and the mass transfer resistance on the liquid side at the gas−liquid interface and the mass transfer resistance at the liquid−solid interface should be considered.24 Exploring the eﬀect of diﬀerent liquid superficial velocities (flow rate/cross-sectional area of the packed bed) on the reaction rate at the same residence time can be used to determine whether the external mass transfer limitation can be ignored. In the present study, four μPBRs with the same volume (3.0 mL) and diﬀerent internal diameters (4.35; 4.57; 5.35; and 5.75 mm) were designed for the experiments. These reactors were filled with the same amount of the catalyst. This method can successfully achieve diﬀerent liquid superficial velocities in diﬀerent reactors under the same flow rate and residence time.

and a low liquid rate of 1.0 mL/min with the yield of 95%. Matos et al. successfully achieved simultaneous removal of multiple benzyl groups in μPBRs with a yield of 89% under 80 bar and 60 °C with Pd/C catalysts.14 These results demonstrate the eﬃciency and safety of μPBRs in debenzylation than that of the batch reactor. In this paper, a flow system based on μPBRs was developed to perform the H2-based hydrogenolysis. The hydrogenolysis of N-diphenylmethylazetidin-3-ol (DMAOL) to 3-azetidinol (Figure 1) was employed as the model reaction, which is an

catalyst conversion (%) catalyst activity [g(raw material) × g(catalyst)−1 × min−1]

ABSTRACT: In recent years, with the advancements in continuous flow technology and the ever-increasing demand for green processes, continuous flow chemistry has become more and more widely adopted in the pharmaceutical industry. In this work, the continuous hydrogenolysis of N-diphenylmethylazetidin-3-ol to 3-azetidinol in micropacked bed reactors was demonstrated. The eﬀects of diﬀerent catalysts, solvent types, and the additives on the reaction in a micropacked-bed reactor were investigated. The results indicate that the reaction rate per reactor volume is increased by 100 times because of the larger interfacial area and shorter diﬀusion distance in micropacked reactors. To further study the long-term stability of the reaction system, the flow system was successfully operated for 240 h by adjusting the reaction temperature and liquid flow rate. The reaction kinetics model for the hydrogenation of N-diphenylmethylazetidin-3-ol in methanol was studied after the internal and external diﬀusion limitations were eliminated. In addition, the type of adsorption of the reactants on the catalyst and the rate-determining step of the reaction were investigated. KEYWORDS: hydrogenation, debenzylation, kinetics, micro-packed bed reactors ■ INTRODUCTION

During the experiment, it was found that there was no significant pressure drop in the reactor through the pressure gauges at the inlet and outlet of the packed bed reactor, the reaction pressure can be considered to be constant. At first, the temperature and pressure were kept unchanged, the term k′Pβ could be regarded as a constant K, and the following equation is obtained

Pd/C (5 wt %, 55% H2O content) 36.9 0.31 Pd/Al2O3 (5 wt %) 28.3 0.11 Pd(OH)2/C (5 wt %, 55% H2O content) 86.3 0.73 Pd(OH)2/Al2O3 (7 wt %) 86.4 0.23 aExperimental conditions: flow rate of DMAOL (3.8 wt % in methanol) solution: 0.3 mL/min; P = 21 bar; T = 313.15 K; FG = 40 sccm (the molar ratio of H2 to DMAOL: 43); and the amount of the catalyst (diluted with 4.5 g alumina sphere): 0.5 g.

Continuous flow processes have many inherent advantages including the eﬀective suppression of side reactions by precise control of reaction conditions, reduced cost of the separation/ purification process, increased production, reduced energy consumption, reduced equipment volume, and excellent safety.11 Among them, the continuous hydrogenation in micropacked-bed reactors (μPBRs) is promising for the challenges of hydrogenation. In μPBRs, the pressurized hydrogen and liquid reactants flow concurrently through packed beds of catalyst particles with diameters usually smaller than 500 μm. Because of the microscale dimension, it has the advantages of good gas−liquid−solid mass transfer, excellent heat transfer and improved safety while maintaining the plug flow characteristics and fixed-bed catalyst immobilization.12

The hydrogenolysis of DMAOL was performed at nine reaction pressures and the obtained experimental results are shown in Figure 7. Then the experimental data was fitted with eq 6. It shows that when β is 0.31, the calculated curve agreed well with the experimental values (R2 = 0.97), indicating that the reaction order of hydrogen pressure is 0.31. After determining the values of α and β, the two values substituted into eqs 3, 7 can be obtained to calculate the value of k′.

It is found that the conversion of entry 2 is higher than that of entry 1 while the conversion of entry 3 is lower than that of entry 1. The results indicate that acidic conditions favor the removal of the diphenylmethyl group, while basic conditions inhibit the removal of the diphenylmethyl group. The results indicate that debenzylation with hydrogenolysis can be enhanced by addition of acetic acid into the solution and the addition of basic additive should be avoided. The conversions of entry 4 is also slightly lower, indicating that the existence of water would have an adverse eﬀect on the reaction. The exact reason for the adverse eﬀect of water on the reaction is still unclear, which required further investigation. Reaction Performance Test. In this part, we compared the reaction performance of a traditional batch reactor (250 mL volume) with that of the micropacked-bed reactor. Here, the mass of the substrate converted per unit time of the unit reactor volume [g(raw material) × mL (reactor volume)−1 × min−1] was used to evaluate the reactor performance. As shown in Table 3, the reaction rate in the batch reactor was

reactor performance [g(raw material) × mL (reactor volume)−1 × min−1]

Sample Analysis. The samples were collected directly from the outlet of the hydrogenation system. The samples were diluted and measured by HPLC (Agilent 1260 Infinity II) with a UV detector under the following conditions: the column temperature, 30 °C; the injection volume, 5 μL; the ultraviolet wavelength, 220 nm; the mobile phase composition, acetonitrile/water (70:30, v/v), 1.0 mL/min; and the column, Agilent Eclipse plus C18 (4.6 × 250 mm, 5 μm). No side reaction was observed when performing hydrogenolysis of DMAOL in the μPBRs. Hence, the selectivity of the reaction is assumed to be 100%. The product of 3-zaetidinol cannot be measured by HPLC because it has no UV absorption. Only the concentrations of DMAOL and diphenylmethane are meas- ured to calculate the conversion (X) of DMAOL as follows.

indicate that the reaction rate increases as the temperature increases. The values of k′ at diﬀerent temperatures were calculated with eq 7. According to the Arrhenius formula, k Ae E a/RT ′ = − k′ = Ae−Ea/RT, the activation energies (Ea) and Arrhenius constant (A) can be obtained by fitting ln k′ and 1/ RT as shown in Figure 8b, which are 18.6 ± 0.7 kJ/mol and 2.68 ± 0.25 mol0.47/(L0.47·bar0.31·s), respectively (R2 = 0.99). After all the parameters were obtained, the kinetic model could be established.

industry production. Second, multiple gas replacement operations and separation of the catalysts are needed for one batch production, which is troublesome and labor-intensive. Third, there is a safety issue for the hydrogenation process because of the storage of a great amount of pressurized hydrogen and frequent operation of a palladium carbon catalyst.9 As a result, it is highly desired to develop a safe and eﬃcient hydrogenation method for pharmaceutical industry and fine chemical industry. The continuous flow technology has been identified as the number one research area for the advancement of green pharmaceutics by the ACS GCI Pharmaceutical Roundtable.10

no additive 79.7 acetic acid 91.9 triethylamine 67.6 water 73.5 aExperimental conditions: flow rate of DMAOL (3.8 wt % in methanol) solution: 0.5 mL/min; T = 313.15 K; FG = 40 sccm (the molar ratio of H2 to DMAOL: 26); the amount of the 7 wt % Pd(OH)2/Al2O3 catalyst (diluted with 4.0 g alumina sphere): 1.0 g; and the concentration of additive is 8.8 wt % in entry 2, 3, and 4.

where, D (cm) and L (cm) are the inner diameter and the length of the packed tubing, respectively; ε is the bed porosity; and h is the liquid holdup representing the fraction of interstitial open space filled by liquid. From this equation, we can find that the residence time is only determined by the liquid holdup, which can be calculated with the equations reported in the literature.16