2.1. Design of the Stacked Membrane Microreactor. To construct a stacked structure, the microreactor was fabricated by combining the perforated microchannel sheets, perforated microchamber sheets, PDMS membranes, and cover plates. The perforated microchannels and micro- chambers were machined by poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) substrates, which were supplied by Xiaoniao Co. (Hangzhou, China). As shown in Figure 1b, each perforated microchannel sheet with a serpentine channel had one inlet and one outlet for the liquid reactant, and a tiny hole with a diameter of 2.0 mm was drilled next to the microchannel inlet for the gas reactant. The volume of the microchannel was 165.4 μL with a length of 165.4 mm, a width of 1.0 mm, and a height of 1.0 mm. Similar to the microchannel, the perforated microchamber sheet had an inlet and an outlet for the gas reactant. A small hole was drilled next to the microchamber outlet with a diameter of 2.0 mm for the liquid reactant. The microchamber had a length of 32 mm, a width of 27 mm, and a height of 1 mm. A thin PDMS membrane was fabricated by the spin coating method.38,39 Briefly, the PDMS prepolymer was poured onto a poly(tetrafluoroethylene) (PTFE) plate and rotated at a speed of 1200 rpm for 35 s using a spin coater (KW-4A, Xinyou, China). After curing it on a hot plate at 120 °C for 20 min, a PDMS membrane with a thickness of ∼50 μm was formed. In this experiment, three microchannels and two micro- chambers were alternately stacked and four PDMS membranes were sandwiched between the adjacent microchannels and microchambers. As shown in Figure 1c, the PDMS membranes were drilled with two holes in two patterns for the gas and liquid flow into their respective passages. During the operation,

the stacked catalytic membrane microreactor is favorable for the gas−liquid−solid multiphase catalytic reactions. 3.3. Eﬀect of Gas Flow Rate. To study the eﬀect of the gas flow rate, the inlet NB concentration and liquid flow rate were kept at 50 mM and 5 μL/min, respectively. The hydrogen flow rate ranged from 0.1 to 0.9 sccm in this testing. As shown in Figure 8, the initial conversion only reached 36.8% when the

To overcome this drawback, a membrane microreactor that combines the advantages of the membrane technology and microreactor has been proposed,16−19 which can intensify mass transfer and realize supraequilibrium conversions by the continuous removal of the products. More importantly,

additional purification treatments for practical applications. Thus, a liquid flow rate of 20 μL/min may be suitable for continuous production. 3.5. Eﬀect of Inlet Nitrobenzene Concentration. The inlet NB concentration could aﬀect the performance of the stacked catalytic membrane microreactor. To verify this point, the eﬀect of the inlet NB concentration was investigated, ranging from 50 to 130 mM. Meanwhile, the flow rates of the gas and liquid were maintained at 5 μL/min and 1 sccm, respectively, to ensure suﬃcient reaction time and hydrogen in this measurement. Figure 10 shows the variation of the

reactant, the NB conversion decreased from nearly 100 to 62% as the liquid flow rate increased from 5 to 35 μL/min. Notably, the NB conversion could still remain above 90% when the liquid flow rate was increased to 20 μL/min. In fact, the change of the liquid flow rate aﬀects not only the mass transport but also the residence time, which is the ratio of the microchannel volume to the liquid flow rate. The increase of the liquid flow rate would decrease the residence time of the NB solution. When the liquid flow rate increased to 35 μL/min, the residence time was 14.1 min. On the other hand, because of the large surface-to-volume ratio, the mass transport was greatly enhanced and the diﬀusion timescale was in a few seconds.47−49 The residence time was much higher than the diﬀusion timescale so that it is one of the predominant parameters aﬀecting the reaction. Moreover, as the liquid flow rate increased, the hydrogen permeation rate would decrease because of the increased pressure at the liquid side. Thanks to the stacked structure of the catalytic membrane microreactor, this device not only facilitates the utilization of hydrogen but also eﬀectively prolongs the residence time compared to conventional catalytic membrane micoreactors.14,50,51 There- fore, the conversion could maintain at a high level. In addition, as the liquid flow rate increased, the catalyst leaching was not found in this testing. When the liquid flow rate was 35 μL/min, no Pd from the eﬄuents was found according to inductively coupled plasma-optical emission spectrometry (ICP-OES) (7500ce, Agilent) measurement. It was meant that the catalyst layer was stable even operating with a high liquid flow rate. Figure 9 also shows the relationship between the liquid flow rate and the aniline production rate, which is defined as the outlet aniline concentration multiplying with the liquid flow rate. When the liquid flow rate was increased from 5 to 35 μL/ min, the aniline production rate increased from 0.014 to 0.065 mM/h. It was meant that even though the conversion decreased with the increased liquid flow rate, the throughput was still increased. Increasing the liquid flow rate could promote the mass transport of liquid reactant from the bulk to the catalyst layer so that more aniline could be produced. Meanwhile, the increase of the liquid flow rate diluted the reactant and thus the outlet aniline concentration was decreased. However, the contribution of the increased liquid flow rate was more significant. Therefore, the aniline production rate increased with increasing liquid flow rate. However, considering that both the ideal product aniline and NB dissolved in the solution, it was necessary to avoid

a three-layer structure including one perforated microchannel, one perforated microchamber, and one PDMS membrane, which was referred to as the three-layer membrane micro- reactor (TMM). Another catalytic membrane microreactor consisted of two perforated microchannels, one perforated microchamber, and two PDMS membranes and was also constructed via stacking. These components were integrated to

gas flow rate was 0.1 sccm. By increasing the gas flow rate to 0.9 sccm, the corresponding conversion was increased to 95.9%. Moreover, the hydrogen permeation rate to the one- side microchannel varied from 0.0021 to 0.025 mL/min as the gas flow rate increased. This increase is mainly because an increase in the hydrogen flow rate increased the pressure on the side of the microchamber, which caused more hydrogen to permeate through the PDMS membrane to the catalyst layer. If the hydrogenation is fully completed, the theoretically required minimum hydrogen can be calculated by the equation

Microreactors are promising in biological engineering, medical applications, material syntheses, and the chemical industry.1−4

form a five-layer membrane microreactor, which was referred to as the five-layer membrane microreactor (FMM). The preparation process of the catalyst layer was the same as the above-mentioned processes. Figure 6 shows the catalytic performance of the TMM and FMM. For the TMM, the initial NB conversion was 78%. Over time, the conversion gradually decreased to 24% after 10 h operation. Neither the conversion nor the durability was satisfactory. By increasing the number of microchannels from one to two, namely, FMM, the corresponding conversion and durability were upgraded.

microchannel clogging. Kikutani et al.27 constructed a pile-up glass microreactor stack by integrating independent micro- reactors. The output could be adjusted by controlling the number of stacked reactors. These works have demonstrated that the stacked membrane microreactors are able to significantly improve the throughput. However, although these studies have attempted to investigate the stacked structure of microreactors, the flow maldistribution of the reactants in these stacked microfluidic devices still exists, which causes nonuniform heat and mass transfers and thereby lower yields with abundant byproducts. To address this issue, a stacked catalytic membrane micro- reactor was developed for a gas−liquid−solid three-phase catalytic reaction in this study. As illustrated in Figure 1a, the perforated microchannels for the liquid reactant supply (Figure 1b) and the perforated microchambers for the gas reactant supply (Figure 1b) are stacked to form a stacked system. Gas- permeable membranes are sandwiched between adjacent microchannels and microchambers, which separate the reactants with diﬀerent phases. In this case, each micro- chamber faces two gas-permeable membranes positioned at its bottom and top, respectively. With this design, the multi- layered structure allows the reactants to continuously flow

