2.1. Design of the Stacked Membrane Microreactor. To construct a stacked structure, the microreactor was fabricated by combining the perforated microchannel sheets, perforated microchamber sheets, PDMS membranes, and cover plates. The perforated microchannels and micro- chambers were machined by poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) substrates, which were supplied by Xiaoniao Co. (Hangzhou, China). As 

the stacked catalytic membrane microreactor is favorable for the gas−liquid−solid multiphase catalytic reactions. 3.3. Eﬀect of Gas Flow Rate. To study the eﬀect of the gas flow rate, the inlet NB concentration and liquid flow rate were kept at 50 mM and 5 μL/min, respectively. The hydrogen flow rate ranged from 0.1 to 0.9 sccm in this testing. As shown in Figure 8, the initial conversion only rea

To overcome this drawback, a membrane microreactor that combines the advantages of the membrane technology and microreactor has been proposed,16−19 which can intensify mass transfer and realize supraequilibrium conversions by the continuous removal of the products. More importantly,

additional purification treatments for practical applications. Thus, a liquid flow rate of 20 μL/min may be suitable for continuous production. 3.5. Eﬀect of Inlet Nitrobenzene Concentration. The inlet NB concentration could aﬀect the performance of the stacked catalytic membrane microreactor. To verify this point, the eﬀect of the inlet NB concentration was investigated, ranging from 50 to 130 mM

Flow-chemistry process development: A study investigated the effect of liquid flow rate on the conversion of a nitrobenzene (NB) reaction in a catalytic membrane microreactor. The NB conversion decreased from nearly 100% to 62% as the liquid flow rate increased from 5 to 35 μL/min, while it remained above 90% at 20 μL/min. The residence time was a key parameter affecting the reaction, with a decrease in conversion due to increased pressure at the liquid side and prolonged residence time compared to conventional catalytic membrane micoreactors. Aniline production rate increased with flow rate from 0.0 to 35 μL/min. Reactor details: Catalytic membrane microreactor, NB conversion (62-90%), liquid flow rates (5-35 μL/min). Outcome: Decreased NB conversion with increased flow rate, aniline production rate increase with flow rate.

a three-layer structure including one perforated microchannel, one perforated microchamber, and one PDMS membrane, which was referred to as the three-layer membrane micro- reactor (TMM). Another catalytic membrane microreactor consisted of two perforated microchannels, one perforated microchamber, and two PDMS membranes and was also constructed via stacking. These components were integrated to

gas flow rate was 0.1 sccm. By increasing the gas flow rate to 0.9 sccm, the corresponding conversion was increased to 95.9%. Moreover, the hydrogen permeation rate to the one- side microchannel varied from 0.0021 to 0.025 mL/min as the gas flow rate increased. This increase is mainly because an increase in the hydrogen flow rate increased the pressure on the side of the microchamber, which caused

Summary: Flow-chemistry process development in microreactors has been applied for various reactions like hydroformylation of alkenes using CO and H2 in a packed-bed reactor with Rh catalyst at 40 bar pressure and 15 mL/min flow rate. The residence time is adjustable from 3 to 60 min, while the temperature remains constant at 80°C. High conversion (90%) and selectivity (>95%) are achieved for the desired product, aldehydes.

form a five-layer membrane microreactor, which was referred to as the five-layer membrane microreactor (FMM). The preparation process of the catalyst layer was the same as the above-mentioned processes. Figure 6 shows the catalytic performance of the TMM and FMM. For the TMM, the initial NB conversion was 78%. Over time, the conversion gradually decreased to 24% after 10 h operation. Neither the c

microchannel clogging. Kikutani et al.27 constructed a pile-up glass microreactor stack by integrating independent micro- reactors. The output could be adjusted by controlling the number of stacked reactors. These works have demonstrated that the stacked membrane microreactors are able to significantly improve the throughput. However, although these studies have attempted to investigate the stacke

