The eﬀects of the residence time on the microreactor STY and the yield of PC are shown in Fig. 4. The experiments are per- formed at 140 °C and 160 °C, HETBAB concentration of 11.09 mol% in PO, pressure of 3.5 MPa, and the molar ratio of CO2/PO of 1.41. The residence time can be defined as the total volume of the micromixer and the capillary reactor divided by the total volumetric flow rate of the gas and liquid under the operating conditions. The flow rate of the liquid and the CO2 are varied in the range of 0.5–2.1 mL min−1 and 155–660 mL min−1 (STP), respectively. Experiments for varying the resi- dence time are done both by changing the gas and the liquid flow rates, but the volume ratio of the gas and liquid phase is kept constant at 14 in all the runs. The results show that the yield of PC increases and the STY decreases with the increase in the residence time, while the selectivity of PC remains almost constant (>99.5%). During

To elucidate the impact of the molar ratio of CO2/PO, the reac- tion tests are conducted over a range of liquid flow rates (0.14–0.60 mL min−1), whereas the gas flow rate is about 200 mL min−1 (STP) in this set of experiments. The reaction temperature is varied in the range of 140–190 °C. The pressure and the catalyst concentration in PO are kept constant. In these experiments, the actual gas–liquid flow rate ratio is about 15–60. So the change in liquid flow rate does not change the residence time significantly. Fig. 8 and 9 show the eﬀect of CO2/PO on the yield and STY. According to the gas and liquid flow rates in these runs, the flow pattern in the microchannel is a slug flow.36 For a given gas flow rate, the liquid slug length increases, whereas the gas slug length decreases with the increase in liquid flow rate or the decrease in CO2/PO.38 As the rate of convective mass transfer from gas slug to liquid slug increases, the gas–liquid mass transfer is intensified in the slug flow pattern with a decrease in the CO2/PO.34,39 The amount of PO in CO2 becomes larger when the CO2/PO ratio rises, which aﬀects the reaction in two opposite ways. On the

To study the eﬀect of pressure on the yield and STY, exper- iments were carried out in the range of 1.0–4.0 MPa at 11.09 mol% and 4.47 mol% HETBAB in PO. The residence time is maintained at 14 s. The molar ratio of CO2 and PO is kept constant by varying the gas and liquid flow rates at the same time. The actual gas/liquid volume ratios are changed from 65 to 16 for 4.47 mol% and from 52 to 13 for 11.09 mol% HETBAB in PO, respectively. Fig. 5 and 6 show the influence of CO2 pressure on the yield and STY at 160 °C and 170 °C in the microreactor. The PC yield increases with increasing pressure from 1.0 to 3.5 MPa. The extent of the increase for 11.09 mol%

the micromixer is about 0.31 mL. The spiral capillary reactor located in the oil bath is regarded as the residence time unit for regulating the reaction time. The internal diameter and the length of the spiral capillary reactor are 1.0 mm and 2.5 m, respectively. Thus, the volume of the spiral capillary reactor is about 1.96 mL. The high purity CO2 flows through the gas mass flow con- troller and is mixed with the liquid feed in the micromixer. The liquid feed (HETBAB in PO) is pumped into the reaction system by a high precision digital piston pump (Series II, Chrom. Tech. Inc.). After mixing of the gas–liquid phases in the micromixer, the cycloaddition of PO and CO2 occurs in the spiral capillary reactor. Then, the gas–liquid reaction mixture is separated in the gas–liquid separator. The liquid product sample is collected in a glass vessel through the needle valve and is diluted by methanol. The yield of PC was analyzed using a gas chromatograph (GC, Agilent 7890A) equipped with a flame-ionized detector using n-butanol as the internal stan- dard. Every run must be repeated at least twice to ensure the reproducibility of experimental data. During experimental pro- cesses, the operating pressure in the microreactor system is regulated by the pressure regulating valve and the back pressure regulating valve. For ensuring the pressure stability of the system, some tail gas must be continuously released through the back pressure regulating valve in all runs.

The cycloaddition of propylene oxide (PO) and CO2 was investi- gated in a microreactor with an IL catalyst. The microreactor performance was evaluated by studying the eﬀects of diﬀerent operating conditions, such as, the reaction temperature, the operating pressure, the residence time, the molar ratio of CO2/ PO, and the catalyst concentration in PO. The experimental results indicate that the process can be intensified by increasing the reaction temperature, operating pressure, and catalyst concentration in the microreactor. The residence time can be dramatically reduced from several hours in a conventional stirred reactor to about 10 s in a microreac- tor. Even though the mass transfer performance of CO2 and PO can be improved in the microreactor compared to conven- tional reactors, the reaction is still aﬀected by gas–liquid mass transfer. The yield of PC at 3.5 MPa can reach 99.8% at a resi- dence time of 14 s. The TOF value is varied in the range of 3000 to 14 000 h−1 in these experiments, whereas the value is only ca. 60 h−1 in a conventional stirred reactor. The STY or the overall reaction rate ranges from 650 to 4500 gprod. (gcat. h)−1, which is much larger than the value [ca. 19 gprod. (gcat. h)−1] of the conventional stirred reactor. The present study has demon- strated the concept of ‘Novel Process Windows', which was pro- posed by Prof. Hessel. A highly eﬃcient synthesis of PC, catalyzed by an IL, has been carried out in a microreactor.

microreactor. The yield of PC at 3.5 MPa can reach 99.8% at a residence time of 14 s. The turnover fre-

is smaller than that for 4.47 mol%. When the pressure is further raised up to 4.0 MPa, the PC yield is almost remains constant. It can also be observed that the STY is increased for 4.47 mol% HETBAB in PO when the pressure is enhanced from 1.0 to 4.0 MPa. This means that the operating pressure has an eﬀect on the cycloaddition reaction process. The cyclo- addition of PO and CO2 is a typical gas–liquid two-phase reac- tion process. It includes two consecutive processes, which are the gas liquid two-phase mixing or mass transfer and the cycloaddition reaction in the liquid phase. The CO2 concen- tration in the liquid phase reactant is approximately pro- portional to the pressure, which is favorable for the increase of the overall reaction rate. As shown in Fig. 7, the variation of the STY is only about 30% at 170 °C and 21% at 160 °C when the operating pressure varies from 1.0 to 4.0 MPa, respectively. The variation of the STY is defined based on the STY of 1.0 MPa. If the cycloaddition of CO2 and PO were controlled by the gas liquid two-phase mass transfer, there would be a more dramatic increase in the overall reaction rate with the increase

Propylene oxide (PO), methanol, and n-butanol (analytic grade) were purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co. Ltd. Ionic liquid catalyst (HETBAB), which can be dissolved in PO, was obtained from Beijing ZhongKe Anyln Technology Co. Ltd. Carbon dioxide with a purity of 99.99% was commercially available. The schematic of the experimental setup is shown in Fig. 2. The microreactor system used in this study includes a micro- mixer and a spiral capillary reactor. The micromixer is fabri- cated in the stainless steel plate using micromachining technology (FANUC KPC-30a) in our CNC Machining Center. The gas distributor microchannels are located at the back of the micromixer, and the liquid distributor microchannels are at the right side. They are connected by some through-holes with 500 μm diameters in the microreactor. The channels of the micromixer are rectangular with a 600 μm (width) × 300 μm (depth) cross-section. The internal channel volume of

liquid catalyst. The microreactor performance is evaluated by studying the eﬀects of diﬀerent operating conditions, including reaction temperature, operating pressure, residence time, molar ratio of CO2/PO,

quency (TOF) value varies in the range of 3000 to 14 000 h−1 compared to 60 h−1 in the conventional stirred reactor. The space time yield (STY) or the overall reaction rate ranges from 650 to 4500 gprod. (gcat. h)−1,

inhibited due to the very short residence time. The TOF value is increased sharply from 3250 to 5796 h−1 with the increasing of temperature, whereas it is only about 60 h−1 in the conven- tional stirred reactor.16 These results suggest that increasing the reaction temperature has a pronounced positive eﬀect on the TOF and gives an increase of in the activity of the catalyst. Meanwhile, the ring-opening of PO, the CO2 addition, and the intramolecular cyclization are promoted due to the increasing of the reaction temperature. These mean that the process can be intensified by increasing of the reaction temperature in the microreactor. The STY or the overall reaction rate only increases from 1070 to 1787 gprod. (gcat. h)−1 when the reaction temperature varies from 140 to 170 °C, which is much larger than the value [ca. 19 gprod. (gcat. h)−1]of the conventional stirred reactor.16 If the cycloaddition of CO2 and PO was controlled by the intrin- sic kinetics of the reaction, there would be a more dramatic increase in the overall reaction rate with the increase in temp- erature. This trend indicates that even though the mass trans- fer performance of CO2 and PO can be improved in the microreactor compared to conventional reactors,34 the reaction is still aﬀected by gas–liquid mass transfer. From the above description, it can be deduced that the reac- tion temperature aﬀects the reaction in three ways. Firstly, the activation of –OH and the nucleophilic attack of Br− increase with increasing reaction temperature. These are in favor of the ring-opening of PO, the CO2 addition, and the intramolecular cyclization. Secondly, the gas–liquid mass transfer coeﬃcient has a significant relation with gas diﬀusivity in the liquid (DL) and the liquid viscosity (μL).35 An increase in temperature results in the increase of DL and the decrease of μL, which can improve the gas–liquid mass transfer performance. Thirdly, the increase in the reaction temperature can lead to the decrease in the solubility of CO2 in PO, which reduces the reac- tion rate considering CO2 as a reactant. The yield of PC increases as the reaction temperature rises, as shown in Fig. 3, which indicates that the former two factors dominate over the third.

generally performed at very low temperatures (<−50 °C) in batch reactors. Kawaguchi et al. investigated this reaction at temperatures between −20 to 20 °C in a microreactor.31 The results showed that the microreactor yields were much higher than the batch yields (from 20% to 89%) at a very short resi- dence time of 0.01 s. Trachsel et al. found that the reaction rate could be improved from 0.004 mol gcat. −1 min−1 at ambient conditions to 0.046 mol gcat. −1 min−1 at 51 bar and 71 °C for the hydrogenation of cyclohexene.32 This means that the multiphase reaction performance can be enhanced by increasing temperatures, pressures, and/or concentrations compared to operating conditions in conventional stirred reactors. In the present work, the cycloaddition of PO and CO2 to PC is chosen as a model reaction and was investigated in the microreactor using the HETBAB ionic liquid catalyst. The main aim is to verify the feasibility of the cycloaddition of PO and CO2 to PC in the microreactor, decrease the reaction time from hours in batch reactors to seconds, and improve the process eﬃciency (TOF and STY) by process intensification.

these experiments, the gas–liquid two-phase flow pattern is a slug flow, as investigated previously.36 When the gas and liquid flow rates increase, the rate of convective mass transfer from CO2 to PO increases. For the gas–liquid mass transfer controlled reaction, the mass transfer rate or the STY decreases with the increase in residence time (i.e., with a decrease in gas and liquid flow rates).34 On the other hand, for the kinetically controlled reaction, the conversion, which can be considered as the yield of PC due to high selectivity of this reaction, is expected to increase with the increase in residence time. That is, the conversion of the ring-opening of PO, the CO2 addition, and the intramolecular cyclization catalyzed by HETBAB increase with the increase in residence time. From Fig. 4, it can be seen that the increase in the yield of PC cannot be oﬀset by the decrease in the gas–liquid mass transfer perform- ance with the increase in residence time. Therefore, the cyclo- addition reaction catalyzed by the IL in a microreactor is controlled by both the gas–liquid mass transfer and the intrin- sic kinetics under the operating conditions used for these experiments. In addition, the TOF values are varied in the range of 860–4700 h−1 for 140 °C and 1600–5900 h−1 for 160 °C, respectively, which are also much larger than the results of the conventional stirred reactor.16 Moreover, the resi- dence time can be decreased from several hours to about 10 s.6,13,16,37

mass transfer and the intrinsic kinetics perspectives are discussed. The results show that the residence time can be dramatically reduced from several hours in a conventional stirred reactor to about 10 s in a

synthesized a series of hydroxyl-functionalized ionic liquids and systematically investigated the catalytic performance of CO2 cycloaddition, which have both acidic and basic character- istics, and found that the hydroxyl group had a synergetic eﬀect with the halide anion to promote the reaction. It had been demonstrated that 2-hydroxyl-ethyl-tributylammonium bromide (HETBAB) showed higher activity, selectivity, and solubility for the cycloaddition of CO2 and epoxides without any solvent. Therefore, HETBAB was chosen as the homo- geneous catalyst in this work. The intensification of a chemical process mainly includes transport intensification, chemical intensification, and process design intensification. The capabilities of all three process intensification fields are further enhanced by the avail- ability of reliable and highly eﬃcient microstructured reac- tors.19 Microreactors are miniaturized reactor systems with channel characteristic scales in the sub-millimeter range. The extremely large surface-to-volume ratio and the short transport path in microreactors enhance heat and mass transfer dra- matically, and hence provide many potential opportunities in chemical process development and intensification.20,21 Lots of fundamental and applied research for gas–liquid multiphase reaction systems has been carried out and reported, such as hydrogenation,22–24 oxidation,25 Fischer–Tropsch synthesis,26

one hand, the concentration of PO in the liquid phase decreases with increasing CO2/PO, which is unfavorable to the reaction considering PO as a reactant. On the other hand, the concentration of HETBAB in PO increases, which can promote the reaction rate. From the above discussion, it can be deduced that the reaction is controlled by both the mass trans- fer and intrinsic kinetics under these operating conditions. The three factors compensate for each other at high CO2/PO ratios and the eﬀect of the CO2/PO ratio on the yield is negli- gible. Therefore, the PC yield and the STY decrease with the increase in CO2/PO ratio from 1.19 to 1.85. When the CO2/PO ratio is further increased to 4.60, the PC yield and the STY remains almost constant. In addition, the eﬀect of the gas– liquid mass transfer on the yield and the STY decreases with the decrease in reaction temperature due to the decrease of the reaction rate. In other words, the influence of the intrinsic kinetics on the overall reaction rate is intensified.

carbonylation,27 and CO2 absorption,28 etc. Recently, based on the micro-process technology, Hessel proposed the concept of ‘Novel Process Windows', which aims at speeding up the kinetics of reactions, that is, dramatically reducing the reaction time and increasing the productivity of the target products.29,30 Novel Process Windows is focused on enabling chemical intensification by using high temperatures, pressures, and/or concentrations to remove the limitations artificially added to chemistry. The Moﬀatt–Swern oxidation is

which is much larger than the value [ca. 19 gprod. (gcat. h)−1] for the conventional stirred reactor. To some

in operating pressure. From Fig. 7, we can also see that the extent of the increase of the STY for 170 °C is larger than that for 160 °C, this means that the influence of the operating pressure increases at higher temperatures due to the increase in the intrinsic reaction rate. Therefore, we can conclude that the reaction is controlled by both mass transfer and intrinsic kinetics under the operating conditions used for these experiments. When the concentration of HETBAB in PO increases to 11.09 mol%, the data shows that the STY is hardly aﬀected by the operating pressure. This means that the cycloaddition reac- tion is controlled by the intrinsic kinetics of the reaction under these operating conditions. The cycloaddition reaction in the liquid phase is divided into the ring-opening of PO, the CO2 addition, and the intramolecular cyclization, according to its mechanism. The intrinsic reaction rate of the ring-opening of PO increases with the increase in the concentration of HETBAB, but the CO2 addition and the intramolecular cycliza- tion may decrease due to the stereo-hindrance eﬀect at extre- mely high ionic liquid concentration. The collision frequency of HETBAB and PO, based on the PO, increases with increasing catalyst concentration, and the ring-opening of PO is pro- moted. More and more PO molecules are activated by HETBAB until they are all converted to the ring-opened intermediate with a further increase in the concentration of HETBAB. In addition, the HETBAB molecules are much larger than PO and CO2. The ring-opened intermediate will be surrounded by the large ionic liquid molecules, which can produce the large stereo-hindrance. The STY is not influenced by the operating pressure because the CO2 concentration is helpless to the decrease of the stereo-hindrance. Moreover, the high concen- tration of HETBAB can shift the intramolecular cyclization reaction equilibrium, the formation of PC and HETBAB are suppressed. As shown in Fig. 5 and 6, the STY has a slight increase when the temperature increases from 160 °C to 170 °C, this can be explained by the rise of temperature being favorable to the decrease of the stereo-hindrance by intensify- ing the molecule motion.