pumps and continuously reacted in the microreactor. After the chemical reaction of the raw materials in the microreactor, the reaction liquid was directly received. The microreactor adopted in this work was made of silicon carbide. It consists of ten reaction plates in series, each reaction plate with a liquid holding capacity of 1.00 mL and a total liquid holding capacity of 10.00 mL. The reaction plate was composed of the heat transfer layers and the reaction layer. The heat trans- fer layers are at the top and bottom, and the reaction layer is in the middle. The structure of reaction plate is shown in Fig. 2. The reaction layer consists of forty- seven complex structural cells in series. Each cell has internal obstacles, a cylin- drical column, and a V shaped structure. The internal structure of reaction layer is shown in Fig. 3. Before starting the flow process, the microreactor must be cleaned with metha- nol to ensure that it contains no impurities. Subsequently, deionized water was used to clean the whole device. The reaction temperature was set to the predeter- mined value and began to rise. During the preheating process, the experimental device was flushed with deionized water. When the temperature stabilized, tolu- ene and ­HNO3/H2SO4 mixed acid were introduced to the microreactor by pumps,

Experimental investigation of mononitrotoluene preparation in a continuous‑flow microreactor

In this study, the nitration of toluene was carried out in a continuous-flow microreac- tor, and the influencing factors were analyzed by RSM. The results showed that the mass fraction of ­H2SO4 in mixed acid had the greatest influence on toluene nitration, followed by the molar ratio of ­HNO3 to toluene, reaction temperature, and residence time, while the interaction terms had no significant influence on toluene nitration. The significance analysis of the toluene conversion model and the MNT yield model in the microreactor showed that the predicted values of toluene conversion and the MNT yield model had a good correlation with the experimental values. In the experimental range, the toluene conversion model and the MNT yield model could effectively predict the reaction effect. Under the optimal conditions, three repeated experiments of toluene nitration were carried out with a microreactor. The deviation between the actual conversion of toluene and the predicted conversion of toluene was 1.44%, and the deviation

The experiments were carried out in a continuous-flow apparatus equipped with microreactor (Himile Chemical Technology (Shandong) Co. LTD.), syringe pumps (Shanghai Sanwei Scientific Instrument Co., Ltd., 0.10–50.00 mL ­min–1, PTFE), and temperature control system (Huber Unistat P634w, temperature range –60 to 200 °C, temperature stability ± 0.01 °C). The diagram of experimental device for prepara- tion of MNT is shown in Fig. 1. The raw materials were continuously transported by

where 휏 is the residence time (s), VMR is the total liquid holdup of microreactor(mL), Q is the total volume flow rate of feed (mL/min), CT is the conversion of toluene, mT0 is the mass of toluene that did not participate in the reaction which quantita- tively analyzed by HPLC,mT is actual feed mass of toluene which was measured by a balance during feeding(g), YMNT is the yield of MNT, mMNT is the mass of the sample of MNT(g), MT is the average molecular weight of toluene, t is the sampling time(min), and MMNT is the average molecular weight of MNT.

quickly removed, which are particularly suitable for rapid, highly exothermic reactions. Therefore, some researchers have carried out studies on toluene nitration in microreac- tors. In the absence of sulfuric acid as catalyst, Halder et al. [25] conducted toluene nitration experiment in a microreactor with nitric acid as nitration reagent and found that compared with the traditional reactor, microreactors could obtain a higher order of magnitude of the reaction rate, and effectively prevent the temperature out of control by the superior heat transfer performance, but the conversion of toluene was low, only about 40%. Wu [26] carried out toluene nitration in a single-channel glass microreactor, and the conversion rate could reach over 90%, but the amount of nitric acid was large, which was 2–3 times that of the conventional process. Although there are still some problems in using microreactors for toluene nitration, toluene nitration in microreac- tors can enhance mass transfer, improve heat transfer efficiency and effectively improve production safety. RSM is a statistical method to solve multivariable problems by using reasonable experimental design method and obtaining certain data through experiments [27], using multiple quadratic regression equations to fit the functional relationship between factors and response values, and by analyzing the regression equation to find the opti- mal process parameters [28–30]. As mentioned above, researchers have investigated nitration in microreactor with mixed acid, but the research on nitration of toluene in microreactor is not comprehen- sive, and mainly to analyze the influence of factors on the reaction effect, without in- depth study of the strong and weak relationship of factors. In addition, the relationship between the conversion rate of toluene and influencing factors, as well as the relation- ship between the yield of MNT and influencing factors, have not been established. In order to improve the safety of toluene nitration and to study the characteristics of con- tinuous nitration of toluene in the microreactor, MNT was continuously synthesized in microreactor using toluene as raw material, nitric acid as nitration agent, and sulfuric acid as catalyst. The effects of reaction temperature, residence time, mass fraction of ­H2SO4 in mixed acid, and molar ratio of ­HNO3 to toluene on the nitration of toluene were investigated by response surface methodology. Variance analysis and significance tests were conducted for toluene conversion model and MNT yield model.

Verification of optimum conditions for toluene nitration in microreactor

Abbreviations DNT Dinitrotoluene MNT Mononitrotoluene MR Microreactor RSM Response surface method

According to response surface analysis, the optimal experimental conditions for the conversion of toluene in the microreactor were as follows: reaction temperature

