where To is the temperature of the fluid at the inlet of the reactor (20 °C); Tw is the wall temperatures of the microre- actor (100-140 °C); and m is the mass flow rate of the fluid (1.04 × 10-6 kg s-1 at volumetric flow rate of 0.08 mL min-1). The density of isoamyl ether of 778 kg m-3 was used in the calculation.24

of ∼100 °C or above. Thus we examined the position in the tubular microreactor at which the fluid reached this temper- ature. Temperature profiles were calculated for the two extreme flow rates used in order to find out the position and the time needed for the fluid to reach the steady-state condition inside the tube. These profiles were calculated for the fluid in the region of the reactor immersed in the oil bath. We made the following further assumptions in the calculation: the fluid had a fully developed laminar flow pattern in the microre- actor with a constant wall temperature. Temperature gradient along the radius direction inside the tube was not taken into consideration. Forced convection heat transfer was used, since the fluid was pressed into the microreactor by a syringe pump. To obtain the temperature profiles in a helical tube, we calculated three dimensionless numbers including Prandtl number, Pr, helical number, He, and Nusselt number, Nu. Prandtl number was obtained using the following relation:23

Synthesis of Silver Nanoparticles in a Continuous Flow Tubular Microreactor

Rapid injection of precursors into a heated mixture of solvent, coordinating ligands, and other precursors is often required. A batch process is suitable for those reactions, but often limited to small-scale synthesis due to the low production yield of nanoparticles and the time-consuming nature of the process. A flow reactor, on the other hand, can generate products on a continuous basis once the reaction reaches steady state and is more appropriate for a large-scale production than the batch reactor. Furthermore, targeted reaction temperatures can be achieved in second or even millisecond time scales in a microreactor. Microfluidic reactors have recently been used in the synthesis of various organic, inorganic, and biological materials.3-9 For the synthesis of colloidal nanoparticles, attention has largely focused on various semiconducting materials. Several groups have recently used fluidic micro- reactors10-14 to make semiconductor nanoparticles of CdSe10-13

into a tubular coil made of stainless steel needle (gauge no. 18, i.d. 0.84 mm, Popper & Sons, Inc.) using a syringe (Norm-Ject 2 mL, Henke-Sass Wolf). Figure 1 is an illustration of the experimental setup. A syringe pump (model: Harvard Apparatus 55-4140) was used to regulate the flow rates which were between 0.08 and 0.7 mL min-1. The length of the stainless steel tube immersed in the oil bath was ∼20(0.5 cm. Both the diameter of the helical coil and the pitch length were ∼2 cm. This tubular microreactor was heated to a designed temperature between 100 and 140 °C using an oil bath with a stirrer/hot plate (Chemglass analog hotplate stirrer). The product was collected in a glass vial, and oleylamine (70%, Aldrich, 40 µL) was added subsequently to stabilize Ag nanoparticles for long-term storage. After the reaction, the stainless steel tube was cleaned with an aqueous solution (30 mL) of potassium ferricyanide (III) (0.098 g), potassium hexacyanoferrate (II) trihydrate (0.012 g), and potassium thiosulfate hydrate (0.65 g), and further rinsed with hexane. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images were recorded on a JEOL JEM 2000EX microscope at an accelerating voltage of 200 kV. In the preparation of specimen, Ag nanoparticles were precipitated by adding ethanol to the suspension at an ethanol/mixture volume ratio of 6.5:1 and then separated from the supernatant by centrifuging at 5000 rpm for 5 min under ambient conditions. The particles obtained were dispersed in hexane, and finally a drop of this silver nanoparticle suspension was drop-cast on a carbon-coated copper grid. The ultraviolet-visible (UV-vis) spectra of Ag nanoparticles were recorded using a Perkin-Elmer Lambda 900 UV/VIS/NIR spectrometer. The sample was prepared by diluting 20 µL of as-synthesized mixture with 3 mL of hexane. The particle size distribution was analyzed by measuring between 250 and 400 nanopar- ticles based on TEM micrographs using Scion Image Software 4.0.2 (Scion Corp). Both silver pentafluoropropionate and TOA were soluble in isoamyl ether, resulting in a colorless transparent solution. This solution was introduced by the syringe pump into the tubular microreactor immersed in the oil bath at a designed temperature. The color of the reaction mixture turned into dark brown, which indicated the formation of silver nano- particles. Oleylamine was the capping agent used to stabilize Ag nanoparticles20 and was added into the product solutions for long-term storage. Silver nanoparticles were separated from solvent mixture using ethanol as antisolvent.

This paper describes the synthesis of silver nanoparticles in a continuous flow tubular microreactor using silver pentafluoropropionate as a single-phase reactant precursor. This precursor can be thermally reduced in isoamyl ether to form silver nanoparticles in the presence of trioctylamine. The reaction is suitable for continuous flow reactors because of the moderate temperature for the formation of silver nanoparticles. The produced silver nanoparticles can have a narrow size distribution. Temperature profiles of the reactant fluids are obtained to understand the formation of silver nanoparticles in the microreactor.

100 °C. In all cases, Re numbers were far below the critical value of 2100, indicating the flows were laminar. Such flows took on a parabolic velocity profile and thus the nanoparticles formed in the center moved faster than those near the wall region. This nonuniformity in velocity profile could poten- tially cause the polydispersity of nanoparticles at a high flow rate in the microreactor.10 The resident time of the fluids in the tube, τ, was another critical factor for the formation of Ag nanoparticles. These values at different flow rates were calculated based on the flow rates and the length of microtube immersed in the oil bath (∼20 cm), Table 2. For this reaction system, a resident time of ∼60 s was required in order to obtain narrowly dispersed silver nanoparticles when the reaction temperature was 100 °C. Resident times shorter than 60 s resulted in smaller average diameters and broader size distributions of nanoparticles, Figure 4.

where u is the linear flow velocity, D is the inert diameter of the tube, and ν is kinematic viscosity of the fluid, which can be obtained using dynamic viscosity divided by the density of the fluid. In this study, we assumed the solutes did not drastically change the viscosity of the fluid and the values for isoamyl ether were used. Table 2 shows the values of Re at the various flow rates and at the temperature of

that the nanoparticles became polydisperse21,22 at the high flow rates. At the flow rate of 0.08 mL min-1, the average diameter of the Ag nanoparticles was 8.7 ( 0.9 nm and the FWHM in UV-vis absorbance was 73 nm. As the flow rate increased to 0.6 mL min-1, the particle formed became polydisperse and the diameters of the nanoparticles varied between 3 and 12 nm, Figure 4. The average diameter of nanoparticles was also reduced to 5.6(1.3 nm with a standard deviation of ∼20%. For this sample, the FWHM in UV-vis absorbance was about 107 nm. To determine the flow patterns, Reynolds numbers, Re, of the fluids were calculated using the following equation:23

and temperature, TL, at a given position along the tube length, L, based on energy balance using the following expression:

°C-1);24 µ is dynamic viscosity for isoamyl ether (1.07 × 10-3 kg s-1 m-1 at 290 K and 0.375 × 10-3 kg s-1 m-1 at 375 K);25 and k is the thermal conductivity of the fluid. The value for k is estimated to be 0.12 W m-1 °C-1 using the value of pentyl ether, which has similar molecule weight, density, and boiling point as those for isoamyl ether (173 °C for isoamyl ether and 188 °C for pentyl ether).26 The relation between helical number, He, and Reynolds number, Re, is given by:27

involved.10 In addition to semiconductor nanoparticles, Wagner et al. recently used preformed citrate-stabilized gold nanoparticles as seeds to grow large nanoparticles in a microreactor. The gold particles formed were polydisperse using this process.15 These experiments, nevertheless, dem- onstrate the potential of using fluidic microreactors for making nanoparticles in a continuous process. To the best of our knowledge, no direct synthesis of metallic silver nanoparticles in a microreactor based on a single-phase precursor has been reported. A single-phase reactant system can be very useful, because it can eliminate the need for a mixer. In this paper, we demonstrate the synthesis of monodis- perse silver nanoparticles using thermal reduction of silver pentafluoropropionate in isoamyl ether in a continuous flow tubular microreactor. We have previously used this approach for making narrowly dispersed silver nanoparticles from silver trifluoroacetate,16 since silver carboxylates are precur- sors that can be thermally reduced under moderate condi- tions.17-19 Unlike the commonly used methods for making silver nanoparticles from silver salts in aqueous solutions, the thermal reducible mixture used in this work is a single- phase system, which is suitable for generating narrowly dispersed nanoparticles without the size-selection procedure. Silver pentafluoropropionate was chosen as precursor and trioctylamine (TOA) as surfactant because of their good solubility in isoamyl ether. Silver nanoparticles can also form rapidly, typically within minutes, in microreactors. In a typical procedure, silver pentafluoropropionate (98%, Aldrich, 0.08 g) and trioctylamine (98%, Aldrich, 386 µL) were dissolved in isoamyl ether (99%, Aldrich, 6 mL). The molar ratio between the silver precursor and surfactant was 1:3 unless otherwise indicated. This solution was introduced * Corresponding author. E-mail: hongyang@che.rochester.edu.

and TiO2,14 although the size distribution of these nanopar- ticles varies substantially depending on the procedure used. These continuous flow processes usually require well-mixed solutions in order to form narrowly dispersed nanoparticles if several reactants are involved. Mixing is largely mediated by molecular diffusion and can be slow. As a result, micromixers are often used in the synthesis of semiconductor nanoparticles, because two or multiphase reactants are

Scaled-up production of monodisperse colloidal nanoparticles has become an important research subject in recent years. In this regard, continuous flow reactors are generally favored over batch reactors. Decomposition of organometallic pre- cursors in organic solvents is one of the most commonly used approaches to nanoparticles because the narrow size distribution can be achieved in such reaction systems.1,2

where r is the radius of the tube, and Rc is the critical radius of the helical coil that is determined by the radius of the helical R, and the pitch length of the helical coils, p, using the following equation:

Reaction temperature played a crucial role in the formation of Ag nanoparticles. When the temperature was below ∼100 °C, no silver particle formed after the reactants flowed through the tubular microreactor at the rate of 0.08 mL min-1. It appeared that the silver pentafluoropropionate started to decompose and form Ag nanoparticles at the temperatures