Fig. 2. The experimental set-up for continuous-flow synthesis of azo dyes in a microreactor system. 1-reactants tank: solution A; 2-reactants tank: solution B; 3-reactant tank: solution C; 4,5,7-constant flow pump; 6, 9-micromixer; 8,10-coil; 11-products tank.

scale up in industry than a small flow rate used in the literatures. It is also important to study the eﬀects of diﬀerent factors of diazotization and azo-coupling reaction respectively in the synthesis of azo dyes in a microreactor system. This paper takes the micromixer system as the core of the mixed reaction unit, and takes four model azo dyes as the reaction system. Firstly, the conditions of diazotization and azo-coupling reaction were explored and optimized with the flow rate varied from 10 ml/min to 70 ml/min, and four model azo dyes were synthesized by continuous- flow method. Although various groups have investigated similar reac- tions in microreactors, there is no detailed research about optimizing the diﬀerent influencing factors of diazotization and azo-coupling re- action respectively in a microreactor system. So we systematically discussed the optimized conditions of the continuous-flow synthesis of azo dyes in the microreactor system. Then, the commercial azo dyes (Methyl Orange and Orange II) were synthesized with the reaction conditions of the model azo dyes. This research provides a practical and feasible technological scheme for the synthesis of high-quality azo dyes.

Continuous-flow synthesis of azo dyes in a microreactor system

3.1.1. Eﬀects of flow rate of reaction solution on the yield of azo-coupling reaction The 1(4sulfonicphenyl) -3methyl -5pyrazolone and aniline were selected as the azo coupling component and the diazo component respectively as a model reaction system. The flow rates of the reactants became the main factor aﬀecting the mixing when other reaction con- ditions were determined. As shown in Fig. 4, it can be seen that the yields increased when the flow rates of the reactants increased from 10 mL/min to 60 mL/min. When the flow rates reached 50 mL/min–60 mL/min, the yield reached the highest. However, the yields declined with the flow rates increasing over 60 mL/min continuously. The reason for this phenomenon is that when the flow rates increase, the mixing performance increase in the micro-mixer and the secondary flow is enhanced in the coils. The stronger the secondary flows are, the greater the contact area of the fluids are, which maintains excellent mixing, mass and heat transfer. When the flow rate reaches 60 ml/min or more (mixing rate 2 m/s or more), the residence time of the reactants in the coil becomes shorter due to the increase of the flow rates, resulting in the reaction being incomplete and the yields decline.

2.2.2. The experimental set-up for continuous-flow synthesis of azo dyes in a microreactor system The experimental set-up for continuous-flow synthesis of azo dyes in a microreactor system is shown in Fig. 2. The solution A (flow rate: 30 mL/min, concentration: 0.2 mol/L) and the solution B (flow rate: 30 mL/min, concentration: 0.2 mol/L) were mixed in the first micro- mixer. Then, the diazotization was carried out in the first coil and the diazonium salts were synthesized. The formed diazonium salts and the solution C (coupling components, flow rate: 60 mL/min, concentration: 0.1 mol/L) were mixed in the second micromixer. The azo-coupling reaction was carried out in the second coil and the azo dyes were formed. At the exit, we obtained azo dyes products.

Keywords: Azo dye Microreactor Continuous synthesis Process optimization

2.3.2. Preparation of reactant solutions for continuous-flow synthesis of azo dyes in a microreactor system

Fig. 4. Flow rates of the reactants profile plot at diﬀerent reaction temperature. Reactants flow rate U = 60 mL/min, pH(coupling component) = 9.95, T (diazonium salt) = 0– 4 ℃, C (diazonium salt) = C (coupling component) = 0.1 mol/L, coil length = 5.0 m, coil internal diameter = 2.0 mm.

Fig. 1. The experimental set-up for azo-coupling reaction and the micromixer. 1-reactants A tank; 2-reactions B tank; 3,4-constant flow pump; 5-micromixer; 6-coil; 7-products tank.

When the residence time is 8 s or more, the yields of the four model dyes were basically able to reach a relatively high level. According to the orthogonal test, the eﬀects of three factors on the synthesis process of the azo dyes were obtained. The main factor af- fecting the reaction yields was the molar ratio of sodium nitrite and aniline. The secondary factor was the feed temperature and the last factor was the residence time of diazotization. Combined with the op- timization of azo-coupling reaction conditions, the optimal conditions of continuous-flow synthesis of azo dyes in microreactoras were de- termined as follows: 1) sodium nitrite solution and aniline solution: the feed temperature is 25 ℃, the molar ratio of sodium nitrite and aniline is 1.06:1, the flow rate is 30 mL/min, the residence time is 10 s. 2) coupling components: the feed temperature is 21 ℃, the initial pH value of the coupling component is 10, the flow rate is 60 mL/min, and the residence time is 8 s or more. The continuous-flow synthesis of four model azo dyes and the commercial azo dyes was carried out under the optimized conditions in a microreactor system. The yields of No. 1, No. 2 and No. 4 azo dyes could reach more than 96%. The yield of the No.3 azo dye was more than 90% and the yields of the Orange II, and Methyl Orange were more than 94% under the optimized conditions. The results in this paper show that the continuous-flow synthesis of azo dyes in a microreactor system with a higher flow rate than that of other literatures can also reach a higher yield, compared with the re- actions in the batch reactor. In addition, the continuous-flow synthesis of the azo dyes from the diazotization to the azo-coupling reaction in a microreactor system has not only applied for the synthesis of model azo dyes, but also it applies for the commercial azo dyes. This method also follows the principles of green chemistry, such as less hazardous che- mical synthesis, eﬃcient atom economy, reduction of waste produced for the environmental pollution problems, so this methodology has a very good industrial value.

