d mean particle size, nm R radius, mm N number of ellipsoids in the reactor q flow ratios Q flowrate, mL/min C Concentration, mg/mL

min. This is because as the flow rate increases, apigenin is able to mix more quickly into deionized water. Due to the short time allowed for crystal growth, apigenin crystallizes quickly, and it is easier to form nanocrystals with small particle size and narrow particle size distribu- tion [52]. The effects of different flow rates on the mixing index and effective time of apigenin can be compared by numerical simulation. The mo- lecular mass distribution of apigenin under different flow rates is shown in Fig. 8. The smaller the flow rates, the more obvious the fluid strati- fication in the microreactor is, and the smaller the contact surface be- tween apigenin and water, resulting in larger precipitated apigenin particles. Increasing the flow rate, especially when Q = 1 mL/min, the chaotic convection in the microreactor is enhanced, which makes the apigenin in full contact with water, and rapidly precipitates the nano- particles with small particle size from the water. There is no significant difference in the mixing index of the four flow rates in Fig. 9(a), but the greater the flow rate, the shorter the time required for molecular transport. Therefore, the greater the flow rates, the shorter the time to

Mean particle size d m [L] Flow ratios q – Flowrate Q m3/s [L3T−1] Concentration C kg/m3 [ML-3] Density ρ kg/m3 [ML-3] Viscosity μ kg/ (m s) [ML-1T−1] Radius R m [L]

The flow of solvent and antisolvent also has an important effect on the formation of nano apigenin. Maintain the flow ratio of solvent to antisolvent at 1: 20, the concentration of proto apigenin was 20 mg/mL, the solvent flow rates were 0.125 mL/min, 0.25 mL/min, 0.5 mL/min, 1 mL/min, and the antisolvent flow rates were 2.5 mL/min, 5 mL/min, 10 mL/min, and 20 mL/min. The particle size variation rule was studied, and the results of apigenin particle size at different flows were shown in Table B1. With the increase of flow, the particle size of nano apigenin gradually decreased, and the particle size of 1 mL/min was the smallest, which was half of 0.25 mL/min. It can also be seen from the particle size distribution law (Fig. 7) that the larger the flow, the smaller the particle size of nano apigenin, among which the particle size is the smallest and the particle size distribution is the narrowest when the flow rate is 1 mL/

Using a microreactor, we were able to gently control the flow rate of the two joined phases with electrical syringe pumps. Change in flow rate

effect (Fig. 9(b)). When Q = 1 mL/min, t0.9 is only 0.16 s. It can be judged that the larger the flow, the shorter the effective time required in the apigenin molecular molecule reactor, and the better the mass transfer effect.

where u denotes the velocity vector, ρ is the fluid density, p is the pressure, μ is the viscosity, Cap is the mass fraction of apigenin and D is the diffusion coefficient of the apigenin molecule. CFD software, ANSYS/FLUENT 19.2, was used to solve the governing equations. In the experiment, the flow state of solvent and anti-solvent was laminar flow, thus the laminar flow model was adopted. The solver was set as pressure-based solver, and the steady-state calculation were adopted. The SIMPLEC method was applied for the pressur- e–velocity coupling. The convergence criterion of the simulation was that the values of all governing equations residual less than 10-5. In the boundary conditions, two Inlets (Inlet-1 and Inlet-2) were set as velocity inlets, and one Outlet was set as pressure outlet. The other faces are defined as walls, and the channel walls are set as no slip boundary conditions. In the solvent/anti-solvent system, the amount of apigenin dissolved in DMSO and the amount of surfactant dissolved in deionized water were less, the physical parameters of DMSO and deionized water were taken as those of the two fluids. The physical parameters of these two fluids were shown in Table 1. The distribution uniformity of apigenin in mixed solution can be used to quantify the transport mass of apigenin molecules. It can be

[18,19]. However, the traditional preparation methods are usually performed at macroscale. At the macroscale, it is difficult to accurately control the preparation environment of nano drug crystals and easily leads to wide particle size distribution. Microreactor technology has been widely used for the preparation of microscale and nanoscale particles [20–23]. Compared with traditional methods, microreactor technology provides a more precise and controllable environment for the investigation of preparation processes at nanoscale or microscale, which is conducive to preparing high-quality crystals [24–27]. By using the droplet microfluidic technology and uti- lizing the characteristics of rapid continuous mixing inside the droplet, Zhang, Toprakcioglu et al. [28] through the combination of simulation and experiment, found that changing parameters such as protein con- centration and flow rate can finely adjust the size characteristics of nanoparticles, so as to prepare highly monodisperse protein nano- particles. Zhang et al. [29] investigated the effects of microgravity and hypergravity on the antisolvent crystallization of L-histidine in a self

of the two fluids affected the particle size of the nano apigenin to either increase or decrease their size. In the process of preparing nano apigenin by solvent-antisolvent method, in order to compare the effect of different flow ratios on the particle size of nano apigenin, the flow rate of fixed antisolvent (water) was 10 mL/min, the concentration of apigenin was 20 mg/mL, and the solvent (DMSO) flow rate was changed to 0.5 mL/min, 1 mL/min, 2 mL/ min and 5 mL/min. Particle size changes under different flow ratios are shown in Table B1. With respect to nanoparticles' synthesis, similar to the droplet generation process, the antisolvent flow rate is kept constant, and the solvent flow rate is changed, that is, when the flow ratio in- creases from 1:2 to 1:10, resulting in a decrease in particle diameter. However, the flow ratio increases to 1:20, and the particle size increases. This may be due to excessive antisolvent flow, which makes the effective timeof the reactants too short and affects the particle size. The effect of

rameters from the identified parameters, and in general, it is a scheme for nondimensionalization. Using the π theorem, the specific relation- ship between nanoparticle particle size, solvent and antisolvent flow rates, flow ratios and drug concentration were obtained. There are also various parameters, such as microreactor hydraulic diameter (R) and fluid density (ρ), viscosity (μ), and their parameter dimensions are

rate and apigenin concentration can be numerically simulated by CFD. Mixing index and effective time were used to evaluate the mass transfer of apigenin molecules in the reactor to understand the factors affecting the formation of nano apigenin particles. Fig. 5 shows the mass distri- bution of apigenin molecules flowing through different ellipsoids under different flow ratios. The flow ratio increased, and the color in the cloud gradually changed from blue to green and yellow, indicating that the solvent phase volume flow rate increased with the increase of the flow ratio, and the mass fraction interval of apigenin increased from 0.001 to 0.008.

developed a simple and versatile coaxial turbulent jet mixer that can synthesize a variety of NPs at high throughput up to 3 kg/d, while maintaining the advantages of homogeneity, reproducibility, and tunability that are normally accessible only in specialized microscale mixing devices. Guo and Liu et al. [34] synthesized the nucleobase unit of the antiviral drug remdesivir, 7-bromopyrrolo [2,1-f] [1,2,4] triazin 4-amine through a five-step continuous flow in a microreactor. Under the optimal flow, 7-bromopyrrolo [2,1-f] [1,2,4] triazin-4-amine was produced at a total yield of 14.1 % for 79 min and a flux of 2.96 g⋅h−1. The total effective time was significantly shorter than the total time consumed in batch procedures (>26.5 h), which significantly enhances the liquid–liquid phase reaction. Geng and Mao et al. [35] summarized a process strengthening method for mixing and separation in a pneumatic slurry reactor in continuous production. A process strengthening tech- nique combining directional flow in airlift loop reactors (ALRs) with simple solid–liquid separation in hydrocyclone was proposed, which had the advantages of high efficiency and low cost. Qiu et al. [36] proposed a convenient numbering-up strategy by assembling different numbered up capillary microreactor systems with commercially available parts, and they demonstrated the feasibility of this strategy for the processes with significant variation of fluid properties. Alan et al. [37] established an acoustically actuated microfluidic mixer, which can provide a 50-fold improvement in throughput compared to previously demonstrated acoustofluidic approaches at flow rates reaching 8 mL⋅min−1. Recently, microfluidic strategy by coupling high-efficiency flow field internals with directly scale-up microchannels has been proved that it can enhance mixing efficiency on the premise of ensuring high throughput [38–41]. This strategy has great potential in high-throughput prepara- tion and particle size control of nanoparticles. Apigenin (API) has many biological activities and values such as anti inflammatory, anti-tumor, anti-oxidation, anti-anxiety, immune regu- lation, cardiovascular and cerebrovascular protection [42]. Due to its low solubility and high permeability, the absorption and utilization

Another main parameter affecting nanoparticles' size and stability is the apigenin active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) concentration. This section studies the effect of concentration on apigenin particle size and compares its mass transfer effect on apigenin. The flow rate of sol- vent and antisolvent are 1 mL/min and 20 mL/min, respectively, and apigenin API concentrations were changed by 10 mg/mL, 15 mg/mL, 20 mg/mL, 25 mg/mL to prepare nano apigenin. The results of particle size determination of nano apigenin with different proto apigenin API con- centrations are shown in Table B1. It can be seen that with the increase of concentration, apigenin particle size and PDI both decrease first and then increase. From the particle size distribution (Fig. 10), it can be seen that when the concentration is 10 mg/mL and 15 mg/mL, the particle size distribution is narrow, but bimodal appears, and there is a large particle size distribution between 800 ~ 1600 nm. It shows that the

The empirical correlation formula (Eq. (19) was used to guide the synthesis of nano apigenin to obtain the smallest particle size. It can be seen from Eq. (19) that the larger the values of q, Q and C in a certain range (q = 1/20 ~ 1/2, Q = 0.125 ~ 2 mL/min, C = 10 ~ 25 mg/mL), the smaller the particle size of the obtained nanoparticles. Considering the mixing index and effective timeof apigenin recrystallization in the microreactor, we selected the values with the highest mixing index and

μ viscosity, Pa⋅s u velocity vector, m/s p pressure, Pa D the diffusion coefficient of the apigenin molecule, m2/s M transport index N the number of nodes Ci the mass fraction of each point

The particle size and distribution have a significant impact on the bioavailability and stability of insoluble drugs. A scale-up microreactor system based on an ellipsoidal baffle mixer was proposed for the preparation and tuning of insoluble drug. As an important bioactive substance, apigenin was used as a representative of insoluble drugs and was subject to particle size regulation by this system. The effects of surfactant, flow rate ratio, flow rate and solvent concentration on apigenin particle size were studied by solvent/anti-solvent method experiments and the transport process of apigenin molecules in the microreactor was simulated numerically by computational fluid dynamics (CFD). Furthermore, the particle size regulation model of apigenin in the system was built by using the π theorem of fluid mechanics. Finally, under the conditions of optimal parameters, the minimum particle size of nano apigenin (D50) was 116 nm, the recovery was 95.3 % and the purity was increased by 0.88 %. This study demonstrates the feasibility of a highly efficient, high-throughput, particle size controllable preparation of nanomedicine.

This work provides a novel technology for the preparation of drug nanoparticles with poorly aqueous solubility using a scale-up micro- reactor system based on an ellipsoidal baffle mixer. The microreactor has excellent mixing performance, which can expand the applicable flow range at medium and low flow rates to prepare nano apigenin. The combination of experiment and simulation was used to prepare apigenin nanoparticles by solvent-antisolvent method, and the particle size of apigenin was regulated by changing the surfactant, total flow rate, flow rate ratio and solute concentration. CFD simulation studied the molec- ular transport process of apigenin in solvent-antisolvent, and further explained the mechanism of apigenin particle size regulation. By adjusting different operating parameters, apigenin particles with average particle size (D50) ranging from 97 nm to 468 nm were pre- pared. In addition, the empirical correlation formula of the nano api- genin particle size regulation model was derived by dimensional analysis, which was correlated with the experimental data with an error of less than 13.31 %, which proved the feasibility of the empirical cor- relation. Finally, apigenin nanoparticles were prepared under the guidance of the empirical formula, the particle size of the nanoparticles was 116 nm and the purity was 98.72 %. Compared with apigenin API, the purity was increased by 0.88 % and the recovery was 95.3 %. The toxicity of apigenin nanoparticles will be further studied later.

the smallest effective timeas the experimental conditions for the syn- thesis of nano apigenin, that is, the solvent and antisolvent flow rates were 2 mL/min and 10 mL/min, respectively, the flow ratio was 1:5, and the concentration of apigenin API was 20 mg/mL and the concentration of surfactant was 0.5 %. The prepared nano apigenin emulsion was washed with deionized water, centrifuged for 5 times, the supernatant was poured off and dried in a vacuum drying oven. Finally, obtaining 1.906g of nano apigenin, and the recovery was 95.3 %, the particle size of nano apigenin was 116 nm. By analyzing the liquid chromatograms of the apigenin API and the prepared nano apigenin sample at the same concentration (the specific experimental process is in Supplementary material C). The relative peak area (purity) of the apigenin API was 97.84 % and the purity of the sample was 98.72 %. It can be seen that the purity of the nano apigenin prepared by the microreactor was increased by 0.88 %. This may be due to the fact that in the microreactor system, when the apigenin API enters the microreactor at a certain flow rate, the complex flow field structure inside the microreactor causes the flow rate to change sharply, forming turbulence. Apigenin reacts quickly with water and precipitates in the form of crystals, while a small number of impurities in apigenin are dissolved in water. Therefore, the purity of the nano apigenin particles

High throughput preparation and particle size control strategy of nano apigenin by a scale-up microreactor

This section discusses the particle size regulation model of nano apigenin and the error analysis of the model. The particle size of nano apigenin is related to the flow ratio, flowrate and raw material con- centration. Correlating Eq. (18) in Section 2.3 with the relevant exper- imental data yields the following empirical correlation, the detailed derivation process is in Supplementary material A.

