Keywords: Microreactors Microchannel Continuous flow Nitration Kinetics Mass transfer

To increase the reactor output, one of the commonly used approaches is to scale up the reactor capacity that is the reactor channel diameter in continuous flow microreactors. However, dur- ing the scaling-up of microreactors their unique characteristics need to be kept, such as microfluidic controllability, and mass and heat transfer properties. To understand the scalability of the droplet-base microreactor for the nitration reaction in this work, microreactors with three microchannel diameters (i.e. 0.5, 1.0 and 1.59 mm i.d.) were constructed to investigate the effect of varying reactor channel diameter on reactant conversion with a fixed N/S at 0.57, M-ratio at 1.6, and temperature at 298 K (Fig. 8). As can be seen from Fig. 8(a), where both residence time (t = 333.5 s) and total flow rate (Q = 142 lLmin1) were kept con- stant by changing the reactor length (0.4–4 m) accordingly, the conversion of etherate decreased slightly from 80% to 75.5% with the increase of the inner diameter of the reactor tube from 0.5 mm to 1.59 mm. That was mainly due to the change of flow dynamics. As the residence time and the total flow rate were kept unchanged, the smaller inner diameter resulted in higher flow velocity, leading to more intense chaotic convection and more rapid interface renewal that were beneficial to the apparent reac- tion rate. In addition, the increase of inner diameter was more favorable for the occurrence of coalescence of the dispersed dro- plets, which further reduced the liquid–liquid two-phase interfa- cial area and increased the mass transfer distance.

Total flow rate (μL·min -1)

The microreactor consisted mainly of a FEP T-mixer (i.d. 0.5 mm, IDEX Health & Science), two inlet PTFE tubes with suffi- cient length for preheating (i.d. 0.5 mm, length 1 m, IDEX Health & Science), and a main reaction circular PTFE channel with selected inner diameter and length (i.d. 0.5, 1.0, or 1.59 mm; length 0.4– 8 m; Nichias Corporation). The microreactor and overall experi- mental setup is schematically shown in Fig. 1. Two precision syringe pumps (Harvard 11 ELITE Single, USA) were used to deliver organic phase and the mixed acid through the respective inlet tube into the T-mixer, and then the main reac- tion channel. All inlet tubes, T-mixer and the reaction channel were placed in a thermostatic water bath (Julabo GmnH CORIO CD-200F, Germany) at preset reaction temperature. The residence time was regulated by the length of the reaction channel and/or flow rate. The M-ratio was controlled by the volumetric flow rate ratio of two phases. The reaction mixture from the outlet of the main reac- tion channel was then quenched in an ice-water bath (Julabo GmnH CORIO CD-200F, Germany). The organic phase was sepa- rated quickly from the quenched reaction mixture, and was subse- quently treated with solvent removal by natural volatilization at room temperature, drying by a baking oven at 333 K, powder grinding to form final fine powder product. A stereo microscope (Olympuss ZX2-ILLK, Japan) coupled with a high-speed camera (Phantom Miro R311, USA) were used to record the droplet length and flow. The imaging frame rates was set as 1000 frames per sec- ond. The length and the distance of the acid droplets were mea- sured by ImageJ.

The variation of reactant conversion was likely a result of the effect of total flow rate on the flow dynamic behavior of droplet- based microfluidics, such as geometry of dispersed droplets, their possible coalescence along the microchannel and two-phase inter- facial property (Hao et al., 2020; Tang et al., 2013). Generally, at high total flow rates smaller dispersed droplets are formed that increased the interfacial surface area and, in turn, enhanced mass transfer performance leading to higher reaction rates. On the other hand, higher total flow rates can cause the coalescence of the dis- persed acid droplets in microchannels, which can weaken the mass transfer performance. As observed in Fig. 6, the dispersion of the two-phase droplets was uniform and stable when the flow rate was below 426 lLmin1. In that case, the internal circulation in the droplets and the renewal velocity of two-phase phase interface were enhanced with the increase in the total flow rate, where the mass transfer rate from the organic phase to the acid droplets was intensified (Zhao et al., 2007; Antony et al., 2014), resulting in higher conversions. It can be seen in Fig. 6, with further increase in the flow rate, the coalescence of the dispersed droplets occurred causing the decrease of two-phase interfacial area and reduced mass transfer performance, despite the possible chaotic flow of the continuous phase at high flow rates (Husny and Cooper- White, 2006). As shown in Fig. 5, the selectivity of the nitration reaction under these operating conditions remained approximately constant. This was largely due to the residence time, N/S, M-ratio, organic phase concentration and reaction temperature all being kept unchanged, which were considered to be the main factors affecting the selec- tivity of this reaction. Overall, the effect of total flow rate was insignificant on either conversion or selectivity under the experiment conditions, sug- gesting a very wide operating zone which is beneficial for optimiz- ing operation conditions and process scaling-up.

was able to give a fourfold increase in total volumetric flow rate when the reactor channel diameter was doubled (from 0.5 mm to 1.0 mm).

By varying total flow rate and flow rate ratio, stable and control- lable droplet-based multiphase microfluidics was achieved, as shown in Fig. 2. Regular droplets were generated of aqueous phase mixed acid which were suspended in the continuous organic phase composed of mainly 1,2-dichloroethane as main carrier, and reac- tant 3-[2-chloro-4-(trifluoromethyl) phenoxy] benzoic acid (or etherate) whose mass fraction in the total mass of two fluid streams was 8.8 wt%. Because the solubility of the reactant in 1,2-dichloroethane is very low, especially as no acetic anhydride exists in the organic phase. In order to stably deliver the feed with- out solid particles, a large amount of solvent must be adopted in microreactor. Although the low content of reactant will reduce the production capacity, it is more important to carry out success- fully the nitration process, control precisely the operating parame- ters and improve the stability of the product quality. Varying amount of acetic anhydride was also added to the organic phase

3.2.3. Effects of varying total flow rate With a given diameter of the reaction tube, varying total volu- metric flow rate can affect the liquid–liquid two-phase hydrody- namics in the droplet-based reactor that may have potential impact on the reaction performance. This possible effect was examined by varying the total flow rate in a range of 200–1200 l Lmin1. Accordingly, the main reaction tube length was changed in order to keep a constant residence time (83 s), while remaining N/S, M-ratio, organic phase concentration and reaction tempera- ture all as constant. The reactant conversion and product selectiv- ity as a function of total flow rate are depicted in Fig. 5. It was observed that the conversion increased slightly from 65% to 67% with the increase of the total flow rate in the low total flow rate range (<426 lLmin1). That was followed by a slight decrease in conversion from 67% to 61% when the total flow rate was increased from 426 lLmin1 to 580 lLmin1. As the total flow rate was raised further from 580 lLmin1 to 1200 lLmin1, a very slight recovery of conversion was found, from 61% to 64%.

(1) Increasing reaction temperature and M-ratio results in over- all higher reaction rate and conversion, and simultaneously increase in side reaction rate leading to the reduction of pro- duct selectivity, while increasing N/S reduces the conversion but has insignificant effect on product selectivity. The opti- mized reaction temperature, M-ratio and N/S are found to be 308 K, 1.6 and 0.57, respectively. Under optimal reaction conditions, a conversion of 83.03% and selectivity of 79.52% have been achieved in a microreactor (i.d. d= 0.5 mm, L = 4 m).

The submillimeter microscale continuous flow process is particu- larly of significance to fast exothermic and complex reactions, such as polymerization and radical reactions involving unstable inter- mediates or toxic reagents (Kim et al., 2004; Zaborenko et al., 2010). In our series of studies on microreactor technology, we have successfully developed a range of droplet-based microreactors, demonstrating the capability and suitability for effective multi- phase reactions by regulating hydrodynamics, interface character- istics and overall mass transfer (Zhang et al., 2018; Ma et al., 2019; Zhou et al., 2020; Hao et al., 2020; Sun et al., 2021; Jin et al., 2021). Furthermore, microreactors have been shown as a promising plat- form for the characterization of chemical reaction kinetics, mainly due to the high degree of controllability over the multiphase microenvironment (Zaborenko et al., 2010; McMullen and Jensen, 2011; Wang et al., 2011; Su et al., 2015). With the unique characteristics of microreactors, the perfor- mance of high space time yield, short reaction time, low energy consumption, and high selectivity have also been demonstrated for carrying out aromatic nitration (Olah et al., 1989; Jähnisch et al., 2004; Coyle and Oelgemöller, 2008; Illg et al., 2010; Sharma et al., 2015). By using a continuous-mode microreactor, Kulkarni et al. (Kulkarni et al., 2009) realized the nitration of ben- zaldehyde with controllable reaction time, temperature and stoi- chiometric ratios. Yu et al. (Yu et al., 2013) developed a continuous microreactor process for the nitration of p-difluorobenzene with fuming nitric acid achieving a high product yield 98% within 2 min reaction time. Lan et al. (Lan and Lu, 2021) further developed a micropacked-bed reactor for the continuous nitration of o-dichlorobenzene which was impressively completed within 5 s with a selectivity of 89% for the main product. Consider- ing the highly exothermic nature with high risk of explosion, the nitration reaction is normally performed at low temperature, typ- ically around 273 K, which can inevitably increase operating diffi- culties and energy consumption. To address these issues, Wen et al.

