cantly impacting the reaction rate and selectivity to 12H-NEC [23]. To ensure thorough reaction of N-ethylcarbazole, at least a stoichiometric amount of hydrogen is required for the reaction. Besides, the gas flow rate also affects the residence time and gas–liquid mass transfer [32]. Considering the effect of N-ethylcarbazole flow rate, the molar ratio of hydrogen to N-ethylcarbazole was used instead of the gas flow rate. To assess the effect of hydrogen pressure and gas flow rate on the reaction, the experiments were carried out at 2–4 MPa and 24–42 sccm, i.e., molar ratios of hydrogen to N-ethylcarbazole ranging from 6 to 10.5. As shown in Fig. 4, the conversion of NEC maintained at 100 % and

CA, CB, CC, and CD represent the concentrations of NEC, 4H-NEC, 8H NEC, and 12H-NEC. PH2 represents the hydrogen pressure. k1, k2, k3 and k4 are the reaction rate constants for the hydrogenation of NEC to 4H NEC, hydrogenation of NEC to 8H-NEC, hydrogenation of 4H-NEC to 8H-NEC, and hydrogenation of 8H-NEC to 12H-NEC. A represents the pre-exponential factor, and Ea represents the activation energy. Samples with varying residence times were obtained by changing the liquid flow rate, and the product composition was determined by GC. The Python software was utilized to estimate the kinetic parameters by applying the least squares method to integrate the concentration curves over the residence time at 120–160 ℃. The experimental results and the model prediction are shown in Fig. 7. The model predictions are in good agreement with the experimental values, especially for shorter residence times. The slight deviation at longer residence times can be attributed to the simplified assumption that certain non-ideal factors, such as dehy- drogenation, dealkylation side reactions and chemical equilibrium, were ignored in the reaction process.

outer diameter: 6.3 mm) was filled with catalysts for the heterogeneous hydrogenation process. The reactor temperature was controlled by an electric heating jacket, while the system pressure was regulated by an outlet pressure regulator. As the pressure difference between the inflow and outflow of the reactor was negligible, the system pressure could be assumed to remain constant during the reaction. The micro-packed bed reactor was initially purged with nitrogen before hydrogen was fed at a fixed flow rate. When the system pressure reached the required pressure and the temperature of the electric heating jacket reached the set value, the substrate was fed at a specific flow rate. After running for at least three times the liquid residence time, the system reached a steady state [23] and samples were collected for analysis. The heating jacket was turned off, and the system was depressurized at the end of the reaction. The solvent and nitrogen were used to substitute the liquid substrate and hydrogen. The catalysts were stored in a nitrogen atmosphere. Based on our previous studies on liquid holdup in a micro-packed bed reactor [21], the liquid residence time (τ) can be calculated by the following equation:

A schematic of the continuous hydrogenation system based on a micro-packed bed reactor is shown in Fig. 1. Since NEC is solid at ambient temperature with a melting point of 68 ~ 70 ℃, it is difficult to pump it directly into the reaction system. Hence, it was dissolved into methylcyclohexane for the subsequent hydrogenation process. The liquid substrate was injected into the system via a plunger pump (Ou Shi Sheng Technology Co., Ltd.) and was premixed with the gas in a micromixer before entering the reactor. The gas flow rate was controlled by a mass flow controller (Beijing Sevenstar Electronics Co., Ltd.). The micro-packed bed reactor (Length: 25 cm, inner diameter: 3.87 mm,

To assess the impact of temperature on the hydrogenation reaction, experiments were conducted at a high liquid flow rate, i.e., short resi- dence time with temperatures ranging from 60 ℃ to 180 ℃. As shown in Fig. 3, N-ethylcarbazole was nearly fully converted above 80 ℃, but the selectivity to dodecahydro-N-ethylcarbazole was significantly influ- enced by temperature. Results showed that the initial reaction rate accelerated as the temperature increased from 60 ℃ to 140 ℃ and selectivity to 12H-NEC increased from 33.86 % to 90.18 %. The tem- perature increase from 140 ℃ to 180 ℃ resulted in insignificant changes in conversion and selectivity, and even a decrease in the selectivity to 12H-NEC at 180 ℃. The result may arise from reaction equilibrium. The hydrogenation of N-ethylcarbazole is exothermic, so high temperatures are not conducive to the reaction [17]. Therefore, subsequent experi- ments were carried out at 140 ℃ to explore the impact of other parameters.

ically stable intermediates, thus the study of kinetic networks is essential for reactor design and process optimization. Sun et al. found that the NEC hydrogenation process followed pseudo-first-order kinetics over Raney Ni and the activation energy was 115 kJ/mol [10]. Sotoodeh et al. described the NEC hydrogenation process as a network of stepwise hy- drogenation reactions containing six substances, assuming that the re- actions were first-order in the concentration of the heteroaromatic organic compounds and zero-order in hydrogen [26]. These kinetic studies were conducted in batch reactors and often were limited by mass and heat transfer. Continuous flow technology is ideal for kinetic ex- periments because of its enhanced mass and heat transfer and precise control of residence time [27]. However, to the best of our knowledge, there have been no reports on the kinetics of NEC hydrogenation in a continuous flow reactor. This research established a continuous hydrogenation system for N ethylcarbazole based on a micropacked bed reactor. The effects of cat- alysts and various reaction parameters (temperature, hydrogen pres- sure, and gas flow rate) were investigated, and the stability of the hydrogenation system was evaluated. Furthermore, the corresponding kinetic network model was established in micropacked bed reactors. This work can provide a feasible and promising strategy for the continuous hydrogenation of LOHCs.

lent, HP 6890 Series) with an FID detector and an Agilent DB-35 capil- lary column (length: 30 m, diameter: 0.250 mm, film thickness: 0.25 μm). The setting parameters were as follows: injection temperature: 260 ℃; injection volume: 1.0 μL; column temperature: 120 ℃, 3 min; 120–220 ℃, 20 ℃/min; 220 ℃, 5 min; 220–260 ℃, 20 ℃/min; 260 ℃, 5 min; and the detector temperature, 250 ℃. The split ratio was 50:1. The carrier gas was nitrogen, and the flow rate was 38.8 mL/min. Based on this analytical method, the retention times of the substances were as

3.5.1. External diffusion In order to investigate the effect of external diffusion, the influence of liquid superficial velocities (liquid flow rate / cross-sectional area of the packed bed) on the reaction rate was explored. The reaction rates at different liquid superficial velocities with the same residence time were obtained by using reactors with the same volume (2.0 mL) but different inner diameters (3.87 mm, 4.3 mm, 4.6 mm).

approximate plug flow [21], thus providing significant advantages in mass and heat transfer efficiency [18] and precise control of reaction conditions. It can improve the selectivity to 12H-NEC and further in- crease the mass hydrogen storage density. Micro-packed bed reactors have been successfully applied in several hydrogenation reactions, such as reductive amination [22], hydrogenation of heterocyclic nitro- aromatics [23] and hydrogenolysis [24]. However, little research on the application of continuous flow technology in NEC hydrogenation has been reported as far as we know. Chen et al. reported the NEC hydro- genation reactions in a stainless-steel tubular reactor (10.0 mm i.d.) with 100 % conversion and 98 % selectivity using Ru/Al2O3 at 180 ℃ and 5 MPa [25]. But the optimization of the hydrogenation process was not performed. Therefore, a more detailed investigation of NEC hydroge- nation in continuous flow reactors is urgently required. NEC hydrogenation is a complex reaction involving multiple kinet-

where D (mm) and L (cm) represent the inner diameter and the length of the packed bed; ε represents the bed porosity; h is the liquid holdup, which can be obtained according to the previous study [21]; FL is the liquid flow rate.

N-ethylcarbazole is a promising alternative for liquid organic hydrogen carriers. However, due to the high kinetic barriers in N-ethylcarbazole hydrogenation, harsh conditions and high loading of Ru metal are needed. Designing a cost-effective and low-temperature hydrogenation process for liquid organic hydrogen carriers remains a significant challenge. In this work, a continuous hydrogenation process of N-ethylcarbazole in a micropacked bed reactor is reported. The effects of catalysts, temperature, hydrogen pressure, and gas flow rate are evaluated. The results show that 1 wt% Ru/Al2O3 exhibits the best catalytic performance with 100 % conversion of N-ethyl- carbazole, 99.41 % selectivity to dodecahydro-N-ethylcarbazole and 5.79 wt% mass hydrogen storage capacity under a mild reaction condition of 80 ℃ and 4 MPa. A kinetic model of N-ethylcarbazole hydrogenation is established and the network of stepwise hydrogenation reactions exhibits a good fit for each product. The hy- drogenation of octahydro-ethylcarbazole is the rate-limiting step. The obtained kinetic model is helpful for process optimization of the continuous N-ethylcarbazole hydrogenation process.

the main byproduct was 8H-NEC at 140 ℃. 4H-NEC was barely detectable. The conversion of NEC to 4H-NEC and 4H-NEC to 8H-NEC occurs quickly, while the conversion of 8H-NEC to 12H-NEC is slow at high temperatures. More detailed information is shown in the kinetic study. Fig. 4(a) indicates that increasing pressure promotes the con- version of 8H-NEC to 12H-NEC and improves the selectivity to 12H NEC. The selectivity to 12H-NEC reached 90 % at 4 MPa and was not significantly impacted by further increases in pressure, indicating that pressure was no longer a limiting factor for NEC hydrogenation.

The stability of the catalyst and reaction system is an essential evaluation factor for the large-scale application of LOHCs in industry. A long-term test for NEC continuous hydrogenation was conducted in a micropacked bed reactor. As shown in Fig. 5, the conversion of NEC maintained 100 % and the selectivity to 12H-NEC was above 98 % for more than 140 h. 1.8 g 1 wt% Ru/Al2O3 successfully converted 100 g N ethylcarbazole into dodecahydro-N-ethylcarbazole and the mass hydrogen storage density of the product was higher than 5.7 wt%, which was close to the theoretical hydrogen storage density of N-ethyl- carbazole and could meet the requirements of the Department of Energy (DOE, 2025) [34]. As a result, the continuous flow hydrogenation sys- tem for N-ethylcarbazole exhibited excellent catalytic activity and su- perior stability for at least 140 h, indicating the robustness and durability of the reaction system against deactivation.

ports also has a significant impact on the conversion and selectivity. Although the conversion of Ru/C also reached 100 %, the selectivity to

3.5.4. The parameters estimation Sotoodeh et al. assumed that the NEC hydrogenation reaction was first-order for the concentration of the heteroaromatic organic com- pounds [26]. Wan et al. found that the apparent reaction rate was first order for hydrogen concentration [13]. Combining literature and experimental results, we assume that the reaction is pseudo first order for the concentration of the heteroaromatic organic compounds and hydrogen. The pressure drop between the inlet and outlet of the reactor is negligible, so the hydrogen pressure can be considered constant throughout the reaction. According to the reaction pathway, the kinetic equation can be established as follows.

tem for liquid organic hydrogen carriers using a micropacked bed reactor. The effects of catalysts, temperature, hydrogen pressure, and gas flow rate were evaluated for N-ethylcarbazole hydrogenation. The 1 wt% Ru/Al2O3 prepared by a conventional incipient wetness impreg- nation method exhibited the best catalytic performance. Full conversion and 99 % selectivity to dodecahydro-N-ethylcarbazole were obtained under a mild condition of 80 ℃ and 4 MPa. Furthermore, a reaction kinetic network was established. N-ethylcarbazole was primarily con- verted to 9-ethyl-tetrahydrocarbazole which was subsequently con- verted to 9-ethyl-octahydrocarbazole or it was directly hydrogenated to 9-ethyl-octahydrocarbazole. The 9-ethyl-octahydrocarbazole was hy- drogenated into dodecahydro-N-ethylcarbazole and this step was the rate-limiting step of the reaction. The corresponding activation energies and pre-exponential factors were determined, providing the basis for process optimization. This work proposes a feasible and promising strategy for high-efficient and safe hydrogenation of liquid organic hydrogen carriers. Nevertheless, further optimization of catalysts is required to decrease reaction temperature and improve stability, thereby reducing energy consumption and enabling process scaling up.

State Key Laboratory of Chemical Engineering, Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China

A kinetic study is of great significance for reactor scale-up, process optimization, and safety management. The reaction rate is often controlled by kinetics or mass transfer. Before establishing the kinetic model, the mass transfer performance should be considered. According to previous research, mass transfer in a gas–liquid-solid catalytic system generally involves three steps: the dissolution of H2 in the liquid, the diffusion of dissolved H2 from the gas–liquid interface to the solid catalyst surface, and intraparticle diffusion to the active catalytic sites [24]. Hence, experiments and calculations were conducted to verify that

12H-NEC was only 56.59 %. A large amount of 8H-NEC was found in the product, indicating that the conversion of 8H-NEC to 12H-NEC was the rate-limiting step. Compared to Ru/C and Ru/SiO2, Ru/Al2O3 exhibited the highest hydrogenation activity. At 80 ℃, NEC was completely con- verted with a selectivity of 99.41 % to 12H-NEC. The hydrogen storage capacity achieved 5.79 wt%, which was close to the theoretical value. SEM and TEM results showed the Ru/Al2O3 had a smaller average par- ticle size, and the Ru element was uniformly distributed throughout the entire catalyst structure (Fig. S2 and S3). It facilitated the hydrogena- tion process, particularly the rate-limiting step from 8H-NEC to 12H NEC [31]. To further optimize NEC hydrogenation, the effects of reac- tion parameters were investigated in a micro-packed bed reactor with Ru/Al2O3.

reaction rate is no longer controlled by the external mass transfer resistance when the liquid superficial velocity exceeds 5.1 cm/min. Subsequent kinetic experiments were carried out on the basis that the external diffusion had been eliminated.

