Figure 4. Run time of continuous-flow hydrogenation in microreactor. Reaction conditions: ni- trobenzene (0.1 mol/L, methanol as solvent), catalyst (Pd@SBA-15, 0.1 g), flow rate (0.50 mL/min), H2 (1.0 MPa), back-pressure (0.9 MPa), 50 ◦C, and 1.0 min.

Entry a Flow Rate (mL/min) H2 Pres. (MPa) Temp. (◦C) Solvent Yield (%) b

Figure 1. The microreactor of continuous-flow hydrogenation with mesoporous Pd@SBA-15.

Data Availability Statement: The data presented in this study are available in [Continuous-Flow Hydrogenation of Nitroaromatics in Microreactor with Mesoporous Pd@SBA-15].

Article Continuous-Flow Hydrogenation of Nitroaromatics in Microreactor with Mesoporous Pd@SBA-15

Nitroaromatics in Microreactor with

Continuous-flow hydrogenation. In this work, a more environmentally friendly and practical continuous-flow hydrogenation system was developed by using a micro- packed-bed reactor (MPBR) filled with Pd@SBA-15 as a reusable catalytic model. Aromatic amines were prepared by a safe and efficient hydrogenation process using nitroaromatics and hydrogen as feedstock. In the optimization of reaction parameters, the reaction was carried out with methanol as the solvent. The yield of the aniline reached 85%, 96%, 99%, and 99% under the reaction temperature being 40 ◦C, 50 ◦C, 60 ◦C, and 70 ◦C, respectively (Table 1, entries 1–4). By further adjusting the flow rate from 0.25 to 1.00 mL/min, the nitrobenzene could be completely hydrogenated at a flow rate of 0.5 mL/min (Table 1, entries 3, 5–7), representing that the optimal residence time of this continuous-flow system was 1.0 min. By slightly increasing the H2 pressure to 3.0 MPa, the yield barely increased, representing that the H2 pressure was sufficient (Table 1, entries 8–9). The yield of aniline decreased to 23%, 31%, and 52% when ethanol, ethyl acetate, and acetonitrile were used as the solvent, respectively (Table 1, entries 10–12). When tetrahydrofuran replaced methanol as the solvent, the yield was significantly reduced and close to zero (Table 1, entry 13), as was the result obtained with dimethylformamide (Table 1, entry 14). Hydrogen had a higher solubility in methanol, and hydrogenation had a higher activity coefficient when methanol was used as a solvent, which had been studied and reported in the literature [41]. Thus, the results of the optimized solvent indicated that methanol was the optimized solvent in this hydrogenation. The palladium loading of the Pd@SBA-15 was around 5% (w/w), investigated by ICP-OES, as shown in Table S1. This was a very important characterization parameter for evaluating catalytic

where misolated is the mass of the isolated product by silica gel column chromatography during run time; C0 is the concentration of the feedstock in the solution; F0 is the flow rate

Continuous-Flow Hydrogenation of

(WC) obtained through a urea glass route with high activity and chemoselectivity for the continuous flow hydrogenation of nitro compounds [13]. Moreover, they extended WC and prepared a bimetallic Ni@WC composite characterized by high activity for the cardanol hydrogenation. Although continuous flow reactors have shown many excellent applications in the field of hydrogenation, they still have technical challenges to overcome when it comes to heterogeneous catalyzes, such as improving catalytic efficiency and maintaining catalyst stability. The catalyst is a core factor in optimizing the hydrogenation of nitroaromatics, whether it is an intermittent reactor for traditional hydrogenation or a microreactor for continuous- flow hydrogenation [14–16]. Couto et al. reviewed the performance of a series of com- mercially available hydrogenation catalysts for nitrobenzene [17]. Although some of these catalysts showed relatively good short-term hydrogenation activity, there remained a pro- portion of catalysts prone to deactivation, as traditional metal catalysts tended to aggregate during application. In the case of microreactors, the packed bed is typically operated for a long time, which makes the catalyst activity and lifetime critical [18–20]. Therefore, there is an urgent need to prepare a highly efficient and stable catalyst for continuous-flow hydrogenation systems. Mesoporous materials are an ideal class of supported materials due to their collapse resistance, large specific surface area, and tunable pore size [21,22]. The large specific surface area facilitates gas adsorption, metal dispersion, and active site exposure, thereby enhancing catalytic activity [23–27]. Liu et al. designed and synthesized a group of ternary Ni–Cr–Al metal oxide composites with an ordered mesoporous structure and tested them for CO methanation to produce synthetic natural gas (SNG) [28]. The optimized ordered mesoporous Ni–Cr–Al catalysts showed better properties of anti-coking and anti-sintering, as well as higher catalytic activity and stability than the traditional Ni catalysts. Xun et al. prepared a group of catalysts of WO3 highly dispersed on mesoporous ZrO2 by hydrothermal treatment and calcination [29]. The obtained 700-C16-WO3/ZrO2 showed excellent catalytic activity in oxidation desulfurization, and the dibenzothiophene in the model oil could be completely oxidized to dibenzothiophene sulfone. Mesoporous materials are thus an important class of catalysts in the field of catalysis and still hold great potential to exploit. In this work, we reported the synthesis of a new hydrogenation catalyst Pd@SBA-15 by an impregnation method that loaded the metal Palladium (Pd) onto the mesoporous material SBA-15 (Figure 1). The active sites and surface area of the mesoporous structure were characterized. The catalyst was then filled into a micro-packed-bed reactor (MPBR) for the continuous-flow hydrogenation of nitroaromatics. The conversion and selectivity of the reactions were optimized, and the stability of the catalyst was also tested. In addition, we also evaluated the scope of this catalysis by varying the functional groups on the nitrobenzene ring.

