result in a better mixing eﬀect, which can make the organic compound more evenly dispersed in the acid phase. Besides, a faster flow rate would also decrease the residence time. Therefore, a faster flow rate could reduce the occurrence of dinitration. 2.1.6. Eﬀect of Reactor Structure. Considering that the nitration processes were limited by the mass transfer in microchannel systems, the method of packing microparticles (micro packed-bed reactor) was taken up to intensify mass transfer process between the mixed acid and compound TFMB in microchannel system. In our previous work, it was found that better mixing and reaction performance could be obtained in the packed microchannel system because of its excellent mass transfer performance.7c,16 In this section, the reaction system consisted of a microchannel reactor (length 0.1 m, inner diameter 0.6 mm) and a packed tubular reactor (length 0.3 m, inner diameter 6 mm). The quartz sand microparticles with an average size of 710 μm were packed in the tubular reactor at a porosity of 0.39. It is observed from Figure 7a that TFMB is totally converted at the low flow rate and then the conversion decreases directly with the increasing flow rate. Given such a low volume of the microreactor system, multiply increasing flow rates lead to a shorter residence time which is not enough for the full nitration of TFMB. The eﬀect of the flow rate on product selectivities in a packed microchannel system are presented in Figure 7b, c, which are similar to the results mentioned in former section. What is diﬀerent is that the variation of the product selectivities in this section is larger than that of former section, which also indicates that packing microparticles poses a challenge to the heat transfer in microchannel reactor. To take advantage of the enhanced mass transfer brought by the packed microparticles, several methods are set up to deal with the heat transfer problem in packed microchannel system during the scale up experiments, such as distributing the released heat, changing the size of packed microparticles, and reducing the reaction temperature. 2.2. Scale-up of the TFMB Nitration. As stated above, a broad range of reaction parameters for trifluoromethoxyben- zene nitration process were investigated. The highest conversion (99.6%) was achieved in the microchannel coupled with packed tubular reactor system under the reaction conditions of N/S = 0.25, N/F = 1.1, φ = 97 wt %, T = 273 K, Qor = 0.4 mL·min−1, and Qaq = 0.9 mL·min−1, with the selectivity of o-NB, m-NB, p-NB, and DNB being 7.26%, 0.08%, 90.97%, and 1.04%, respectively. Encouraged by these results, the scale up of the nitration process of TFMB was further performed. As the conversion of TFMB could be dramatically increased by packing microparticles, the microreactor combined with the packed tubular reactor was chosen as the basic unit for the scaling up in this section, and several diﬀerent strategies about packed tubular reactor were tested to obtain the best reaction performance. 2.2.1. Strategy A. The tubular reactor in Entry 1 consisted of four packed tubular reactors (stainless tube, length 1 × 675 mm + 3 × 900 mm, 12 mm o.d., 9 mm i.d.) with a porosity being 0.46. The size of the cylindrical quartz sand was 2 mm in diameter and 2 mm in length (Φ2 × 2). Figure 8 show the scaling-up experimental setup of the continuous flow nitration process. TFMB and mixed acid were pumped with the volume flow rate of 10 mL·min−1 and 24.5 mL·min−1, respectively. The mixture then flowed through the microreactor which was cooled by running water. After the quick mixing in microreactor

with the conversion of TFMB being 99.6%. The results showed that the microreactor coupled with distributed packed tubular reactor could conduct the continuous flow nitration of TFMB well with a good performance. The precise control of temperature distribution and the eﬃcient mixing in micro- reactor ensured the nitration reaction proceeded at a fast rate and minimized the formation of the byproducts compared to that in a batch system.

Figure 7. Eﬀect of flow rate on the (a) conversion of TFMB and (b, c) product selectivity in a packed microchannel system. N/S = 0.25, N/F = 1.1, φ = 97 wt %, T = 273 K.

3. CONCLUSION In summary, experiments were performed to study the eﬀects of reaction parameters in the process development of the continuous flow nitration of TFMB thoroughly. The conversion and selectivity of the products were investigated by changing various parameters, including residence time, reaction temperature, sulfuric acid strength, molar ratio, flow rate, and reactor structure. The highest conversion (99.6%) of reactant was obtained in the microchannel coupled with tubular reactor system at the condition of N/S = 0.25, N/F = 1.1, φ = 97 wt %, T = 273 K, Qor = 0.4 mL·min−1, and Qaq = 0.9 mL· min−1, with the selectivity of o-NB, m-NB, p-NB, and DNB being 7.26%, 0.08%, 90.97%, and 1.04%, respectively. Encouraged by the lab-scale results, the scale-up of the nitration of TFMB with several strategies were performed. A 0.99 kg/h throughput was achieved in the microreactor coupled with distributed packed tubal reactor system, with the selectivity of main products being 98.13% and byproducts being limited below 1.42% (0.08% of m-NB and 1.34% of DNB). The process is amenable for the preparation of analogous compounds and can easily be scaled-up by either increasing reactor size or numbering up the reactors in parallel. Further development of this procedure is currently ongoing in our laboratory.

TFMB and product selectivity. It can be seen from Figure 6a that the conversion of TFMB decreases slightly with the increase in flow rate. On one hand, as the flow rate increased from 1.3 to 3.2 mL·min−1, the residence time decreased from 8.0 to 3.2 s, which leaded a lower conversion of TFMB. On the other hand, higher flow rate will also enhance mass transfer rate,15 which benefited TFMB nitration. Evidently, increasing total flow rate exerted an opposite eﬀect on the conversion of TFMB. As a result, TFMB conversion was determined by the integrated outcome of these two changes. It also implicates that these nitration processes are still limited by mass transfer in the microchemical system. As shown in Figure 6b−d, the product selectivities of mononitrations nearly remain unchanged with the increasing flow rate, which indicates that the performance of microreactor in heat transfer is excellent. It is obvious in Figure 6e that the selectivity of dinitration product decreases sharply with the increase in flow rate. A faster flow rate would

ABSTRACT: In this work, continuous flow nitration of trifluoromethoxybenzene (TFMB) was conducted in a microchannel reactor. The eﬀects of process parameters, including temperature, residence time, sulfuric acid strength, flow rate, and reactor structure, were systemically investigated. It was found that the aforementioned process parameters had significant eﬀect on TFMB conversion, while the product selectivity was merely sensitive to the reaction temperature. On the basis of the results of process parameter optimization, a scale-up strategy combining microreactor with distributed packed tubular reactor was presented. Consequently, excellent performance was achieved in the combined reactor with a kilogram-scale production.

of the workup. Apart from those substantial advantages presented above, with the numbering-up strategy, the small scaling eﬀect of microreactor makes the laboratory results easier to industrialize.9 Gage et al.10 reported the continuous flow nitration of 5-bromo-2-amino-4-methylpyridine from kilogram scale in the laboratory to 100 kg scale in the plant with a 99.7% purity and 50% yield. In this study, we performed the continuous flow nitration of TFMB in the microreactor system. Considering that the next step of the nitration of TFMB was the reduction of the mononitration product, it was diﬃcult to separate isomers of trifluoromethoxybenzenamine. Therefore, the selectivity of m- NB and DNB should be controlled as low as possible to cut the cost of the separation. The objective was to minimize the byproduct selectivity (m-NB < 0.1%, DNB < 1.5%) without decline of the product yield, which could bring significant economic benefits in saving costs of downstream separation and products purification. First, the eﬀects of process parameters on the conversion of TFMB and product selectivity were investigated in detail. The best performance in terms of yield and selectivity was obtained by means of process optimization. Subsequently, on the basis of the results of process development, a scale-up strategy which combined a multichannel microreactor with a distributed packed tubular reactor was proposed, and kilogram-scale production was achieved in the combined reactor.

(4.7 s), the mixture was delivered into the packed tubular reactor with a residence time being 2.8 min. Following the workup of the mixture stream, the products were collected and analyzed by GC. As shown in Table 1, about 89.75% of p-NB, 6.9% of o-NB, and byproducts (0.11% of m- NB and 3.17% of DNB) were detected in the products. As mentioned above, the selectivities of byproducts were sensitive to temperature. The temperature rise of the flowing stream in the first coiler was found to be evidently high due to the fast nitration reaction in the first coiler, which was accompanied by much reaction heat. To avoid the sharp temperature rise, the reaction should proceed in a controlled manner. According to our previous work,16 a smaller size of microparticles used in the packed tubular reactor leaded a higher eﬀective interfacial area and better mixing eﬃciency. Hence, the size of the packed quartz sand in the first coiler was changed from Φ2 × 2 to Φ3

(98 wt %, Kemiou), fuming nitric acid (98 wt %, Kemiou), sodium bicarbonate (99.5% purity, Kemiou), sodium chloride (99.5% purity, BoDi), and ethylene glycol (99.0% purity, Sinopharm). 4.2. General Laboratory Process Developmental Procedure. The general laboratory process developments were carried out in microchannel reactors. TFMB (7.57 M, flow rate of 0.4−1.0 mL·min−1) and a solution of fuming nitric acid in concentrated sulfuric acid (2.49−3.19 M, flow rate of 0.8− 2.2 mL·min−1) were delivered by two syringe pumps (TYD01- 02, Lead Fluid), respectively. The fluids reacted in capillaries with a length defined by the desired residence times and flow rates. The reaction temperature was controlled by a thermostat (F12-ME refrigerated/heating circulator, Julabo). The precool- ing unit, micromixer, microchannel reactor, and microneutral- izer were all made up of stainless steel with an inner diameter being 0.6 mm, and immerged in the thermostat to obtain a uniform reaction temperature. At the outlet, the reaction was quenched by a large amount of water flow (10 mL·min−1). The product was collected into a small beaker containing ice deionized water and separated via a separatory funnel. The organic phase was washed with saturated NaHCO3 solution and deionized water for several times to remove the dissolved trace acid and inorganic substances, respectively. Then, the product was analyzed by GC. The reaction conditions were optimized by changing various parameters, including the temperature, the sulfuric acid strength, the residence time, the molar ratio of nitric acid to TFMB, flow rate, and reactor structure. 4.3. General Scale-up Process. A microreactor, consisting of four plates, 16 channels per plate with the size and total volume of microchannels being 1 mm × 0.5 mm × 85 mm and 2.72 mL, was combined with a tubular packed reactor to conduct the scale-up of continuous flow nitration. The tubular packed reactor was made up by several coilers with diﬀerent length and size, and two kinds of average size of cylindrical quartz sand microparticles were used as packed particles, the average diameters of which are 2 mm and 3 mm, respectively. TFMB (7.57 M, flow rate of 10−20 mL·min−1) and a solution of fuming nitric acid in concentrated sulfuric acid (3.19 M, flow rate of 24−39 mL·min−1) were pumped into microreactor by two metering pumps (P1, P2, SSI, USA), respectively. The temperature of the microreactor was controlled by the microchannel heat exchanger which is integrated in the microreactor system. Then the mixed solution was introduced into the tubular packed reactor, which was put into a sink contained the cold sodium chloride solution (15%, −9 °C) to maintain the reaction temperature. At the outlet, the product was collected into product tank (3 L) containing ice deionized water and then separated via a separatory funnel. The organic phase was washed with saturated NaHCO3 solution and deionized water for several times. Then 0.99 kg/h of desired product o-NB and p-NB were obtained as yellow liquid with a GC purity of 7.05% and 91.08%, while the selectivity of the

microchannel reactor. The eﬀect of residence time was investigated under the reaction conditions of N/S = 0.2, N/F = 0.86, T = 278 K, Qor = 0.5 mL·min−1, Qaq = 1.2 mL·min−1. Figure 3 demonstrates the eﬀect of residence time on the conversion of TFMB and product selectivity. It is observed that a longer residence time will result in a higher conversion of TFMB, especially with mixed acid of a higher sulfuric acid strength. Nevertheless, the product selectivity nearly remains unchanged with the increasing residence time during the experiments, which may due to the fact that the residence time is not long enough to reflect its influence on the product selectivity. 2.1.3. Eﬀect of Sulfuric Acid Strength. It is widely accepted that, when a nitration reaction is carried out with the mixed

