result in a better mixing eﬀect, which can make the organic compound more evenly dispersed in the acid phase. Besides, a faster flow rate would also decrease the residence time. Therefore, a faster flow rate could reduce the occurrence of dinitration. 2.1.6. Eﬀect of Reactor Structure. Considering that the nitration processes were limited by the mass transfer in microchannel systems, the method of

with the conversion of TFMB being 99.6%. The results showed that the microreactor coupled with distributed packed tubular reactor could conduct the continuous flow nitration of TFMB well with a good performance. The precise control of temperature distribution and the eﬃcient mixing in micro- reactor ensured the nitration reaction proceeded at a fast rate and minimized the formation of the byproduc

Figure 7. Eﬀect of flow rate on the (a) conversion of TFMB and (b, c) product selectivity in a packed microchannel system. N/S = 0.25, N/F = 1.1, φ = 97 wt %, T = 273 K.

3. CONCLUSION In summary, experiments were performed to study the eﬀects of reaction parameters in the process development of the continuous flow nitration of TFMB thoroughly. The conversion and selectivity of the products were investigated by changing various parameters, including residence time, reaction temperature, sulfuric acid strength, molar ratio, flow rate, and reactor structure. The high

TFMB and product selectivity. It can be seen from Figure 6a that the conversion of TFMB decreases slightly with the increase in flow rate. On one hand, as the flow rate increased from 1.3 to 3.2 mL·min−1, the residence time decreased from 8.0 to 3.2 s, which leaded a lower conversion of TFMB. On the other hand, higher flow rate will also enhance mass transfer rate,15 which benefited TFMB nitration

ABSTRACT: In this work, continuous flow nitration of trifluoromethoxybenzene (TFMB) was conducted in a microchannel reactor. The eﬀects of process parameters, including temperature, residence time, sulfuric acid strength, flow rate, and reactor structure, were systemically investigated. It was found that the aforementioned process parameters had significant eﬀect on TFMB conversion, while the prod

of the workup. Apart from those substantial advantages presented above, with the numbering-up strategy, the small scaling eﬀect of microreactor makes the laboratory results easier to industrialize.9 Gage et al.10 reported the continuous flow nitration of 5-bromo-2-amino-4-methylpyridine from kilogram scale in the laboratory to 100 kg scale in the plant with a 99.7% purity and 50% yield. In this st

(4.7 s), the mixture was delivered into the packed tubular reactor with a residence time being 2.8 min. Following the workup of the mixture stream, the products were collected and analyzed by GC. As shown in Table 1, about 89.75% of p-NB, 6.9% of o-NB, and byproducts (0.11% of m- NB and 3.17% of DNB) were detected in the products. As mentioned above, the selectivities of byproducts were sensitive 

(98 wt %, Kemiou), fuming nitric acid (98 wt %, Kemiou), sodium bicarbonate (99.5% purity, Kemiou), sodium chloride (99.5% purity, BoDi), and ethylene glycol (99.0% purity, Sinopharm). 4.2. General Laboratory Process Developmental Procedure. The general laboratory process developments were carried out in microchannel reactors. TFMB (7.57 M, flow rate of 0.4−1.0 mL·min−1) and a solution of fuming n

Flow-chemistry process development: Microchannel reactor with N2O as nitrogen source, TFMB as starting material, mixed acid of H2SO4 and HNO3 as catalyst, product selectivity maintained. Reaction conditions: N/S = 0.2, N/F = 0.86, T = 278 K, Qor = 0.5 mL·min−1, Qaq = 1.2 mL·min−1. Residence time's effect on conversion of TFMB and product selectivity is investigated; longer residence times increase conversion but have minimal impact on product selectivity due to insufficient residence time for observation.

