microreactor was composed of a syringe pump (Harvard Apparatus PHD 2000), reactant injectors, Y-shaped mixer (Φ = 1.8 mm; M), microchannel reactor and product collector. Syringe pump was used to deliver reagents from reactant injectors to the Y-shaped mixer and then to the microchannel reactor. Reagent feed A (10 mL) with aromatic amines in methanol solution and reagent feed B (10 mL) with acrylates in methanol solution were fully mixed in the Y-shaped mixer. The microchannel reactor consists of a PFA reactor coil (inner diameter ID = 2.0 mm, length = 100 cm) filled with lipozyme TL IM (catalyst reactivity: 250 IUN g−1). The microchannel reactor was immersed into a thermostatic apparatus (water bath) to control the temperature. The final solution was collected in a product collector connected to the microchannel reactor. The residence time was controlled by setting the flow rates of feed A and feed B.

reduce the selectivity of products. In addition, in the case of Michael reaction, the long-term reaction facilitates the accumulation of double Michael products [33]. In view of this, we performed the reaction from 20 to 40 min to investigate the effect of residence time/flow rate on the reaction; the results are shown in Figure 5. The best yield was reached in 30 min with a flow rate of 20.8 μL min−1. As we continued to extend residence time, the yield of 3a was decreased slightly. Detection found that with the increase of time, the target product underwent a second Michael addition reaction, which reduced the yield of the target product. Thus, we chose 30 min as the optimum residence time for the following experiment.

It is well known that prolonged reactions can promote the formation of impurities and reduce the selectivity of products. In addition, in the case of Michael reaction, the long-term reaction facilitates the accumulation of double Michael products [33]. In view of this, we performed the reaction from 20 to 40 min to investigate the eﬀect of residence time/flow rate on the reaction; the results are shown in Figure 5. The best yield was reached in 30 min with a flow rate of 20.8 µL min−1. As we continued to extend residence time, the yield of 3a was decreased slightly. Detection found that with the increase of time, the target product underwent a second Michael addition reaction, which reduced the yield of the target product. Thus, we chose 30 min as the optimum residence time for the following experiment.

b Yield of 3a. Yield: 100 (actual received quality/ideal calculated quality). The data are presented as average ± SD of triplicate experiments.

a General reaction conditions: Method A: Continuous-flow microreactor, feed A. (5.0 mmol aniline in 10 mL methanol), feed B (20.0 mmol methyl acrylate in 10 mL methanol), residence time: 30 min, flow rate: 20.8 μL min−1, 35 °C, lipozyme TL IM 870 mg. Method B: Batch bioreactor, 5.0 mmol aniline, 20.0 mmol methyl acrylate and 20 mL methanol in a 50 mL conical flask, 200 r·min−1, lipozyme TL IM 870 mg, 35 °C, 24 h. b Yield of 3a. Yield: 100× (actual received quality/ideal calculated quality). The data are presented as average ± SD of triplicate experiments.

continuous-flow microreactor technology has become increasingly popular as an alternative to conventional batch chemistry synthesis. In order to investigate the effects of enzymatic reactions in different reactors, we performed the enzymatic Michael addition of aniline to synthesize β-amino acid ester in the continuous-flow microreactor and in a batch bioreactor (Table 1). We detected the reaction process in the batch bioreactor and found that it took about 24 h to achieve the ideal yield (method B). However, in the continuous-flow microreactor, we could get better yield in 30 min (method A). Experiments showed that the continuous-flow microreactor can improve the efficiency of enzymatic synthesis of β-amino acid esters.

Due to high surface-to-volume ratio, better heat exchange and eﬃcient mixing, continuous-flow microreactor technology has become increasingly popular as an alternative to conventional batch chemistry synthesis. In order to investigate the eﬀects of enzymatic reactions in diﬀerent reactors, we performed the enzymatic Michael addition of aniline to synthesize β-amino acid ester in the continuous-flow microreactor and in a batch bioreactor (Table 1). We detected the reaction process in the batch bioreactor and found that it took about 24 h to achieve the ideal yield (method B). However, in the continuous-flow microreactor, we could get better yield in 30 min (method A). Experiments showed that the continuous-flow microreactor can improve the eﬃciency of enzymatic synthesis of β-amino acid esters.

3.2.2. General Procedure for β-Amino Acid Ester Synthesis in Continuous Flow Microreactor

product collector connected to the microchannel reactor. The residence time was controlled by setting the flow rates of feed A and feed B.

Due to high surface-to-volume ratio, better heat exchange and efficient mixing, continuous-flow microreactor technology has become increasingly popular as an alternative to conventional batch chemistry synthesis. In order to investigate the effects of enzymatic reactions in different reactors, we performed the enzymatic Michael addition of aniline to synthesize β-amino acid ester in the continuous-flow microreactor and in a batch bioreactor (Table 1). We detected the reaction process in the batch bioreactor and found that it took about 24 h to achieve the ideal yield (method B). However, in the continuous-flow microreactor, we could get better yield in 30 min (method A). Experiments showed that the continuous-flow microreactor can improve the efficiency of enzymatic synthesis of β-amino acid esters.

methyl acrylate in continuous-flow microreactors was studied, and the optimum conditions for the Michael addition were investigated. The results are shown in Tables 2 and 3.

molar ratio, residence time/flow rate and substrate structure on the reaction. Through this technique, 17 β-amino acid esters were rapidly synthesized. Compared with traditional methods, the salient features of this method include green reaction solvent (methanol), mild reaction condition (35 ◦C), short residence time (30 min) and high yield. These features make our methodology an attractive alternative to the current synthesis of β-amino acid esters. Our studies highlight the importance of selecting a reaction system for a specific biotransformation and show that enzymatic reactions can benefit greatly from the continuous-flow microreactor. Our results provide direction for the exploration of new enzyme catalysis processes.

2.7. Enzymatic Synthesis of β-Amino Acid Ester in Continuous-Flow Microreactor and Batch Bioreactor

The reaction was monitored by HPLC analysis using a Shim-Pack VP-ODS column (4.6 × 150 mm) and a UV detector (285 nm). Hexane/2-propanol solution 90/10 (v/v) was used as the mobile phase (flow rate: 1.0 mL min−1).

factors which affect the enzyme activity and process of the reaction. Preliminary experiments showed that the best reaction yield can be achieved when the reaction was catalyzed by lipozyme TL IM in methanol at 35 °C (Entry 8, Table 2). As we continued to increase the reaction temperature, the yield was not improved. Higher temperature may decrease the selectivity of enzymatic reactions, which increases the by-product formation. Residence time and substrate ratio are also important factors affecting the synthesis of β-amino acid esters. With the increase of residence time or methyl acrylate, the target product 3a underwent a second Michael addition reaction, which reduced the yield of the target product.

For enzymatic reactions, the reaction medium and temperature are important influencing factors which aﬀect the enzyme activity and process of the reaction. Preliminary experiments showed that the best reaction yield can be achieved when the reaction was catalyzed by lipozyme TL IM in methanol at 35 ◦C (Entry 8, Table 2). As we continued to increase the reaction temperature, the yield was not improved. Higher temperature may decrease the selectivity of enzymatic reactions, which increases the by-product formation. Residence time and substrate ratio are also important factors aﬀecting the synthesis of β-amino acid esters. With the increase of residence time or methyl acrylate, the target product 3a underwent a second Michael addition reaction, which reduced the yield of the target product.

methyl acrylate favored the double Michael product, which reduced the yield of the target product 3a. Therefore, we decided to choose aniline/methyl acrylate = 1:4 as the optimum substrate ratio.

The results showed that this continuous-flow enzymatic method has a broad applicability. Most aromatic amines showed good reactivity, except the halogen-substituted anilines and 2-aminopyridine (Entries 9–14, Table 4). The electronic eﬀects of substrates have some impacts on additions. The introduction of electron-donating groups increased the nucleophilicity of aniline, making the conjugated addition easier, which was consistent with previous reports [25]. In addition, our studies have shown that Michael addition of aromatic amines catalyzed by lipase in continuous-flow microreactors was markedly influenced by the reaction parameters. The lipozyme TL IM catalyzed the Michael addition of aromatic amines with acrylates in methanol, which could eﬀectively achieve the synthesis of β-amino acid esters. The selectivity of enzymatic reaction decreased with high reaction temperature or long residence time, which led to the increase of by-products. Compared with conventional batch bioreactor, continuous-flow microreactor improved the eﬃciency of enzymatic synthesis, which realized the rapid conversion of β-amino acid esters.

Finally, we explored the scope and limitation of this continuous flow methodology for

based on aromatic amines, we employed a continuous flow technology for the synthesis of β-amino acid esters. Lipase TL IM from Thermomyces lanuginosus was first used to catalyze the Michael addition reaction of aromatic amines with acrylates in continuous-flow microreactors, and 17 β-amino acid esters (3a–3r) were obtained with excellent yields in 30 min (Scheme 1). Effects of different reaction parameters including reaction solvent, temperature, enzyme, substrate ratio, residence time and aromatic amine structure on the reaction were studied.

