favorable to improve the mixing of the two phases at the T-shaped micromixer. A smaller droplet size facilitates an increase in the inter- facial area between the two phases [30], which in turn improves the mass transfer performance and conversion. The method used in this work to enhance mass transfer is to increase the volumetric flow rate. In addition, the mass transfer performance can be enhanced by using S-shaped channel, static mixer, ultrasonic, microwave, etc.

For the nitration reaction, a suitable molar ratio can improve the conversion and save the production cost [41]. From Figs. 10(a), (d), and (e), a significant increase in conversion was observed with an increase in molar ratio. The steepness of the surface can also reflect the effect of different factors on the conversion [35]. As shown in Figs. 10(a) and (e), the slopes of molar ratios are significantly larger than the slopes of temperature and residence time, which also suggests that the effect of the molar ratio is more significant than that of the temperature and residence time. These findings can also be confirmed by significance analysis.

a Data from optimized process. b Isoperibolic mode. c Volumetric flow rate= 18 mL⋅min−1. d A working year of 3000 h.

According to the data, compared to the semi-batch reactor, the space time yield of microchannel reactor has improved by almost two orders of magnitude. The annual production also increased significantly as the microchannel reactor was scaled up. Compared to the space-time yield of 1.36 g⋅L−1⋅s−1 obtained by Fu et al. in a mesoscale flow reactor with a quarter-inch internal diameter [16], the space-time yield in this work is nearly two to three times as high. Also, the space-time yield obtained in this work are substantially improved compared to the study of Chen and Xu et al. [43,45]. However, compared to the above literature, there is still room for improvement in the annual production obtained in this work, so that subsequent process scale-up on a larger scale can be carried out while ensuring process safety.

conversion gradually increased and then leveled off after τ=90 s, while the selectivity of the three isomers had almost no change. This is because the reactions that generate ortho-, metaand para-isomers are parallel reactions, and the relative reaction rates will not be affected by extending residence time [30]. An increase in residence time means a decrease in total volumetric flow rate, leading to lower production ef- ficiency. Therefore, considering the changing trend of the curve and production efficiency, the optimum residence time may be between 60 s and 120 s.

In this study, two different microchannel reactors were assembled and toluene nitration was investigated in the microchannel reactor using HNO3-AC2O. The effects of temperature (T), molar ratio of nitric acid to toluene (molar ratio, MR), mass fraction of acetic anhydride in the mixed acid (ω), and residence time (τ) on the nitration were investi- gated. And response surface methodology was used to optimize the process. Subsequently, the optimized process was scaled up through the sizing-up strategy and the effect of volumetric flow rate was studied. It is considered that the inherent safety of the microchannel reactor will

tion process using microchannel reactors has series of advantages. However, the channel size of microchannel reactors is generally concentrated in the range of micron to submillimeter, which generates shortcomings such as small reaction flux and channel blockage. When blockage occurs, the pressure in the microchannel reactor will increase rapidly, which may lead to safety issues. These problems can be solved by scaling up the microchannel reactor to a certain extent. Researchers generally mention that microchannel reactors have two scaling strate- gies, numbering-up and sizing-up [26]. When increasing the number of channels, that is, the numbering-up strategy, is used to expand pro- duction capacity, the cost of equipment manufacturing and control is high. It greatly limits the potential application of this strategy in in- dustry. If the channel size is expanded to the millimeter level while ensuring the fluid flow characteristics, micro-scale mixing performance and safety performance as much as possible, the size can be enlarged like the traditional tank reactor, thereby promoting the industrialization of the microreactor. Furthermore, the exothermic behavior of the process is necessary to be studied as a reference for production and scale-up.

Based on the temperature data measured by the thermocouples, it showed that the maximum temperature in reaction channel occurred at the T-shaped micromixer. The temperature of the reactants gradually decreased with the flow and heat transfer, and eventually basically reached stability. Fig. 13 illustrates the maximum temperature at the micromixer at different volumetric flow rates. There was a positive correlation between the temperature and the volumetric flow rate. The maximum temperature reached 30.9 ◦C at a volumetric flow rate of 18 mL⋅min-1. Compared to the semi-batch mode, the continuous flow mode exhibits lower overtemperature even at larger dosing rate. At the selected volumetric flow rate, the lower overtemperature is not suffi- cient to achieve the temperature requirement for dinitration. Therefore, dinitration did not occur in the reactor. Although the overtemperature measured in this work is relatively low, it is still possible to reduce the overtemperature during the reaction process by adopting methods such as multi-stage temperature control and changing the reactor structure, thereby reducing possible safety issues.

When the sizing-up strategy is used, a larger channel diameter will result in a poor mass transfer performance. Accordingly, the volumetric flow rate will have a larger impact [43,44]. In order to investigate its effect on the nitration reaction, therefore experiments were conducted using different volumetric flow rates (3–18 mL⋅min-1). The reaction channel length was controlled to keep residence time constant.

Similar to the experimental setup shown in Fig. 1, this microchannel reactor system consisted of three parts: feed, reaction and temperature control. The feeding part was composed of a high-precision piston pump (Xingda, 2ZB-2L20A, China) and an advection pump (Xingda, 2PB 10005IV, China), which were responsible for transporting reaction liq- uids to the reaction part. The reaction part consisted of a coiled channel

The equations involved in the nitration reaction in this work and the abbreviations of the products and by-products are shown in Fig. 3. The calculation equations for the conversion (C), selectivity (S) and yield (Y) were as follows:

lower temperature, and the low temperature could help to reduce the thermal risk of the reaction. As the demand for p-MNT on the market is much larger than o-MNT, the optimum process temperature was selected to be 40 ◦C for the subsequent experiments by comprehensive consideration of conversion and selectivity.

In order to complete the nitration, an excess of nitric acid is usually required. From Fig. 5, there was a significant increase in conversion with an increase in molar ratio, and the conversion finally leveled off when the molar ratio was greater than 1.5. The selectivity of mono- nitrotoluene was essentially unchanged. It is worthy to notice that although an increase in the molar ratio can significantly increase the reaction performance, the amount of waste acid produced will also in- crease significantly, leading to more serious environmental pollution. Aiming to minimize the use of nitric acid while keep high conversion, MR=1.2 was selected for the subsequent experiments and interval 1.2–1.8 was used for further optimization by RSM.

Aromatic nitro compounds are an important class of basic chemical raw materials, while traditional nitration methods may cause safety accidents and environmental pollution due to strong exothermicity and presence of sulfuric acid. In this work, aiming to alleviate these issues, the nitration of toluene was conducted in a micro- channel reactor with nitric acid and acetic anhydride. The effect of temperature, molar ratio of nitric acid to toluene, mass fraction of acetic anhydride, and residence time on the conversion and selectivity of reaction were systematically investigated, and response surface methodology was used to optimize the process. A mono- nitrotoluene yield of 99.21 % can be achieved under optimum condition. Meanwhile, in order to better un- derstand the exothermic behavior, toluene nitration by HNO3-AC2O was investigated in the semi-batch calorimeter. Finally, the optimized process was scaled up and effect of volumetric flow rate was investigated. At the selected maximum volumetric flow rate, the overtemperature of the system was 10.9 ◦C with a 98.3 % yield of mononitrotoluene. Continuous flow mode had a space-time yield nearly two orders of magnitude greater than semi-batch mode. This work can provide guidance for safe, efficient and green synthesis of mononitrotoluene.

The calculation equations for the space-time yield and annual pro-

where Qv is the volumetric flow rate of toluene, ρ is the density of toluene, Y is the yield of MNT, VR is the total inventory in the reactor, MMNT and Mtol are the molar mass of mononitrotoluene and toluene. Tw is the number of hours of reactor operation per year, h/a.

Taking into account the optimum condition predicted by the Design Expert software and minimizing the amount of nitric acid and acetic anhydride used, experiments (conditions: T = 30 ◦C, MR=1.5, ω=65 %, τ=120 s) were conducted to validate the process, and the conversion of toluene could reach 99.21 %. Under the condition, the mass ratio of AC2O to HNO3 can be reduced to <2. Compared with the traditional nitration system, the nitric acid-acetic anhydride system can substan- tially reduce the generation of waste acid and wastewater while ensuring excellent conversion.

tional methods, exploring inherently safe reactors and environmentally friendly nitration systems is of great significance. In recent decades, microchannel reactors have been greatly developed and widely used in nitration, oxidation, hydrogenation and other reactions due to their significant advantages such as fast mass and heat transfer, precise pro- cess control, and inherently safe [7-10]. The application of micro- channel reactors to enhance process safety control and process intensification of highly exothermic reactions has become a hotspot technology for researchers [11]. Ducry et al. [12] studied the nitration of phenol and observed that the overtemperature during the reaction in the microreactor (5 ◦C) was much lower than that in the semi-batch reactor (55 ◦C). Russo et al. [13] compared the benzaldehyde nitration perfor- mance in a batch reactor and a commercial microreactor. In comparison with batch reactor, the microreactor performed significantly better. Kyprianou et al. [14] successfully realized the safe and efficient syn- thesis of 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene in a flow reactor, and optimized the pro- cess through experimental design methods, with a conversion of up to 99 %. Song et al. [15] assembled a homogeneous nitration equipment based

on the continuous microflow, studied the kinetics of homogeneous nitration of o-nitrotoluene and determined each kinetic parameter. Fu et al. [16], while considering process safety, carried out the scale-up of nitration reaction in a mesoscale continuous flow reactor, and the annual yield of MNT could reach 2572 kg.

The microchannel reactor system will no longer be inherently safe when scaling up using the sizing-up strategy. Therefore, scaling up while considering process safety needs to reveal the exothermic behavior of the process [16]. The automatic reaction calorimeter EasyMax102 (Mettler-Toledo) is shown in Fig. 2. It was used to record various real-time parameters of the reaction and screen the thermal risks of the reaction [27]. The reaction was tested using isothermal and isoperibolic mode respectively. In the isothermal mode, the calorimeter keeps the temperature of reactants (Tr) constant by dynamically adjusting the temperature of cooling oil in the solid jacket (Tj). This mode is better equipped to carry out the reaction at the desired temperature. In the isoperibolic mode, the temperature of cooling oil remains constant, and the heat released by the reaction will cause the temperature of reactants to rise sharply. As the heat release rate decreases, the heat transfer ef- ficiency is able to meet the system requirements and the temperature of the reaction solution begins to decrease until it reaches stabilization. This mode can better reflect the dangerous situation that the reaction can achieve, and is also more in line with the temperature control method of the microchannel reactor system.