intrinsic safety.15–18 The application of microreactors is expected to achieve accurate control of temperature in nitration kinetic study. The accurate control of residence time can be achieved by means of a continuous microflow system.19 For liquid–liquid heterogeneous and fast reactions, the reaction rate may be hindered by mass transfer resistance between phases. The small mass transfer distance and large specific surface area in the microchannel are beneficial to greatly improve the mass transfer performance.20–22 The application of microreactors is expected to eliminate the influence of mass transfer resistance as much as possible on the heterogeneous and fast reactions. Many research studies have suggested that due to the excellent mass transfer performance of microreactors, when the mass transfer rate is

The schematic overview of the homogeneous continuous microflow system is shown in Fig. 1. The homogeneous solution was prepared by dissolving 2-MNT (0.5 g) in H2SO4 with a specific mass fraction (160 g) and stirring for 12 h. The mixed acid was prepared by dissolving a specific concentration of HNO3 in the same mass and mass fraction of H2SO4 solution. The homogeneous solution and the mixed acid were delivered separately with two syringe pumps (Chemyx Fusion 6000, America) to pretreatment coiled capillaries to reach a preset temperature. Next, the two fluids flowed through a micromixer (stainless three-way, an inner diameter of 0.15 mm) to achieve sufficient mixing and the reaction was carried out in the subsequent microchannel reactor (PTFE, an inner diameter of 0.5 mm). The online quenching and sampling modules were connected with the microreactor using a micromixer (stainless three-way, an inner diameter of 0.5 mm). The pretreatment coiled capillaries, micromixers and microchannel reactor were immersed in a temperature- controlled bath (CORIO CD-200F, Julabo, Germany) to achieve a uniform reaction temperature. The variation of residence time was achieved by adjusting the length of the microchannel reactor. The effect of mixing performance on the reaction rate has been fully investigated in our previous

Micro-packed30 57.57 Liquid–liquid heterogeneous reaction Continuous microchannel 93.72 57.57 Homogeneous reaction

understanding of nitration and control the reaction better. A homogeneously continuous microflow system

where t is the reaction residence time and V is the volume of the microchannel. Qh and Qm are the volume flow rates of the homogeneous solution and mixed acid, respectively.

Therefore, it is reliable that accurate nitration kinetic parameters can be obtained by a homogeneous nitration reaction in a continuous microflow system. However, accurate 2-MNT nitration kinetics has not been reported so far. In this work, a homogeneously continuous microflow system has been constructed to determine the kinetics of 2-MNT nitration. The accurate control of temperature and residence time can be achieved in this system. The effects of the molar ratio of HNO3 to 2-MNT, temperature, residence time and H2SO4 mass fraction on the conversion of 2-MNT and the selectivity to DNT were investigated in detail in this system. The observed reaction rate constants based on HNO3 and NO2 + were determined, respectively. The variation of the observed reaction rate constant based on HNO3 with the H2SO4 mass fraction at different temperatures has been investigated in detail. And the activation energies, preexponential factors and confidence intervals of the total reaction of 2-MNT nitration and the two parallel reactions were determined, respectively.

phenol,11–13 etc. However, due to the characteristics of fast, highly exothermic and liquid–liquid heterogeneous reactions, in a traditional nitrification reactor, it is difficult to achieve accurate control of the reaction conditions such as temperature, residence time and uniform distribution of concentration.14 The accurate kinetic study of aromatic nitration has been hindered. In recent years, microreactors have attracted considerable attention due to their excellent mass and heat transfer performance, rapid mixing rate, and the characteristic of

Kinetic study of o-nitrotoluene nitration in a homogeneously continuous microflow†

shown in Fig. 13. 92% H2SO4 was selected and the conversion of 2-MNT was investigated at different temperatures. It can be observed that the calculated data fit well with the experimental data under both the conditions of a short residence time and a long residence time. The validity of the model can be confirmed. Therefore, it is credible to predict the reaction performance under different reaction conditions through this kinetic model. By comparing with the result of 2-MNT nitration in the literature, a higher conversion of 2-MNT can be obtained in this work under the same experimental conditions, which shows that the reaction rate is faster with a homogeneous continuous microflow in this work.30 This also proves that the effect of mass transfer resistance between phases on the reaction rate cannot be eliminated completely. Therefore, the determination of the kinetic parameters of the nitration with a homogeneous continuous microflow can be more accurate (Table 4).

In this work, the mass transfer resistance between two liquid phases in the heterogeneous reaction process was completely eliminated by constructing a homogeneous system. And the kinetics of 2-MNT homogeneous nitration were investigated with a continuous microflow. The effects of temperature, molar ratio, residence time, and H2SO4 mass fraction on the conversion of 2-MNT and selectivity to DNT were investigated. The results show that increasing the content of water is conducive to increase the selectivity to 2,6-DNT. Next, the observed reaction rate constants based on HNO3 and NO2 + were obtained, respectively. The observed reaction rate constant based on HNO3 has been proven to be highly dependent on the concentration of H2SO4. The reaction rate increases with increasing H2SO4 mass fraction. However, the increase is limited. When the H2SO4 mass fraction increases to a certain value, the reaction rate decreases with increasing H2SO4 mass fraction. The phenomenon was firstly explained in detail in this work. And to the best of our knowledge, this is the first time to report the maximum observed reaction rate constant corresponding to the H2SO4 mass fraction at different temperatures. Next, a complete kinetic model of 2-MNT nitration was established to describe the reaction performance. The activation energies and the preexponential factors of the mononitration of 2-MNT and the two parallel reactions were obtained, respectively. The activation energy of 2-MNT nitration is 72.358 ± 2.075 kJ mol−1. The activation energy of generating 2,4-DNT is 70.239 ± 1.808 kJ mol−1 and generating 2,6-DNT is 78.298 ± 1.252 kJ mol−1.

