entry flow rate (mL min−1) pressure (bar)

Figure 5. Continuous flow setup for the continuous dinitration process using an increased throughput of 1 mmol min−1.

This is due to the fact that the packed bed reactors (CatCarts) have fixed dimensions (70 × 4 mm, 0.8 mL internal volume). Thus, the flow rate and throughput (mmol h−1) of the overall

the continuous mixing in the flow reactor is not at adequate concentration gradients, inhomogeneous mixtures will be produced along the tubing, resulting in a nonconstant composition of the crude reaction mixture obtained over time. Notably, an improved conversion profile was obtained when the T-mixer was sonicated during processing (Figure 3). Gratifyingly, excellent and constant conversion and purity for the dinitro-FPAA 3 were achieved when a glass static mixer (Uniqsis, 1 mm i.d. channels with active mixing geometries, 1.5 mL internal volume) was installed. In this case the mixer (1.5 mL internal volume) was used both for mixing and as residence time unit. Thus, it was directly immersed in the water bath at 60 °C. For this experiment the flow rate was reduced to 67 μL min−1 in total. At this flow rate the residence time is ca. 18 min. Under these conditions a constant stream with high purity for the desired dinitro-PFAA (3) was obtained during the complete processing time (see Figure 4). To demonstrate that the dinitration process can be readily scaled using our optimized conditions we decided to intensify the process by increasing the throughput to 1 mmol min−1. Thus, the injection of neat FPAA 2 was increased to 179 μL min−1 and the nitration mixture to 500 μL min−1. To compensate this flow rate increase and keep the residence time constant an additional residence time unit (PFA tubing, 0.8 mm internal diameter, 13.5 mL internal volume) was installed at the output of the glass static mixer (Figure 5). Moreover, two additional feeds with water (quench) and toluene were incorporated to obtain a solution of dinitro-FPAA (3) in the organic solvent suitable to be used for the next step of the synthesis. The flow rate for the toluene and water in the intensified process were set to 3.3 mL min−1 and 5 mL min−1, respectively, and mixed in an ice bath (0 °C) to avoid a possible partial nitration of toluene with the excess of nitric acid. At these flow rates a 0.3 M solution of dinitro-FPAA (3) in toluene can be obtained. The setup was run and after 1 h of stabilization several fractions of the biphasic mixture were collected at intervals of 5 min. Quantitative HPLC analysis of the organic phase revealed an average yield for the desired dinitro-FPAA (3) of 93%. Continuous Flow Hydrogenation of Dinitro-FPAA (3). Hydrogenation reactions employing heterogeneous catalysts in fixed bed reactors exhibit several benefits using continuous-flow processing apart from the obvious safety advantages.12 In continuous flow hydrogenations, the hydrogen/substrate mixture is pumped through packed catalyst columns by high- pressure pumps (Figure 6). Due to the large interfacial areas and the short diﬀusion paths in the packed columns, very eﬃcient gas−liquid−solid interactions, and thus hydrogenation, takes place.12

generation and use of hazardous reaction intermediates.9 The enhanced heat transfer experienced in microfluidic devices can control the exotherm generated during nitration reactions. Therefore, these hazardous processes can be carried out in a safe, controlled, and scalable manner using flow devices.9

Figure 7. Schematic diagram of the setup used for the combined flow dinitration/liquid−liquid extraction process. For a photograph of the continuous flow setup see Figure S7 in the Supporting Information.

Figure 3. Conversion profiles obtained for the continuous flow dinitration of FPAA (2) using diﬀerent mixing methods.

Figure 8. Schematic diagram of the setup used for the continuous hydrogenation/cyclization process. BPR: back pressure regulator. For a photograph of the experimental flow setup see Figure S10 in the Supporting Information.

purpose, the output of the liquid−liquid membrane separator was connected to a T-mixer where the stream was mixed with methanol, and then fed to the input pump of the H-Cube Pro (Figure 9) (for a picture of the complete flow setup for the sequential process see Figure S11 in the Supporting Information). All 6 feeds in the continuous flow setup were started, setting all reaction parameters as stated in Figure 9. The system was let run for 60 min to ensure stability and steady-state concentration conditions of the dinitration part of the setup. After ensuring that the initial dinitration/liquid−liquid extraction part of the setup was performing as expected, the inlet of the H-Cube Pro was switched from solvent to the reaction mixture (after the hydrogenation/degassing/cycliza- tion part of the setup had been previously stabilized). After approximately 15 min the crude dark brown reaction mixture was collected in fractions of 15 min each, diluted with methanol to a known volume, and analyzed by quantitative HPLC. After minor modifications in the setup (the residence time for the cyclization was increased from 5 to 10 min) the fully integrated continuous flow process to obtain ABO was carried out for more than 75 min providing excellent results. After ca. 100 min we could observe that dinitro-FPAA (3) was no longer fully hydrogenated to diamino-FPAA (4), with 1−2% of the mononitro/monoamino-FPAA intermediate being detected. ICP-MS analysis of the crude reaction mixture revealed a Pd content of 14.6 ppm. This value corresponds to a total amount of Pd being leached from the cartridge of 1.3 μg over a 100 min operation period. This amount can be considered insignificant compared to the total Pd contained in the CatCart catalyst cartridge utilized (27.5 mg). We ascribe the small decrease in conversion observed to poisoning of the heterogeneous catalyst with some of the reaction components. To achieve longer process operation recovery of the catalyst by cleaning with additional solvents has been described.20 Quantitative HPLC analysis of the crude reaction mixture obtained during the initial 60 min revealed a product yield for the overall process of 83%. After the analysis a 3 M aqueous solution of NaOH was added dropwise to the crude reaction mixture until a pH of 4−5 was reached. The solvent was then evaporated under reduced pressure to ca. 20% of the initial volume and 150 mL of water were added. The precipitate formed was filtered oﬀ, washed with cold water, and dried at 50 °C under reduced pressure (2.28 g, 87% yield, 91% pure by quantitative HPLC). Notably, the product yield obtained for the overall continuous flow process was significantly superior compared to the reported batch protocol (ca. 67%).6

Table 2. Results Obtained for the Sequential Hydrogenation/Cyclization Continuous Flow Process

