The gas flow rate of hydrogen affects the gas–liquid–solid mass transfer performance and mean residence time for the hydrogenation process in the microreactor.40 As can be seen in Fig. 5(a) and (b), the increase in the gas flow rate leads to

G Gas flow rate, sccm h Liquid holdup of the micropacked bed reactor k′ Reaction rate constant in eqn (7), mol0.73 L−0.73

Effect of the liquid flow rate

of conventional stirred tank reactors and packed bed reactors. Furthermore, the intrinsic reaction kinetics is

where D is the inner diameter of the reactor, L is the length of the reactor, ε is the porosity of the μPBR and its value is 0.37, h is the liquid holdup, which can be determined from the literature,48 and Q is the liquid flow rate. Table 5 shows the catalytic performance and STY of FUR hydrogenation to FA in the conventional stirred tank reactor (STR), packed bed reactor (PBR), H-Cube mini reactor, and micropacked bed reactor (μPBR). Compared with the STR equipped with a Cu/SiO2 catalyst, the μPBR was able to obtain high FA yields under mild conditions. Due to the excellent reactor properties of the μPBR, the FA yield can reach 99.6% with a short reaction time (65 s) at low temperature (80 °C) and low pressure (0.6 MPa) compared to the other reactors. Moreover, the maximum STY of the μPBR (0.51) is close to that of the H-Cube mini reactor (0.59), which is one to two orders of magnitude higher than those of the conventional STR and PBR. But the H-Cube mini reactor needs higher pressure (5 MPa) with respect to the μPBR (0.6 MPa). At the same time, the high cost of Ru-based catalysts used in the H-Cube mini reactor limits its industrial scale-up. For the CTH of FUR, the μPBR also provides an excellent STY at lower temperature and pressure as well as a larger STY in comparison to the conventional STR. In summary, both molecular hydrogenation and CTH of FUR can be performed

Fig. 6 Effect of the liquid flow rate on the conversion and yield. Reaction conditions: 0.2 mol L−1 FUR, 80 °C, 20 sccm, (a) isopropanol, 0.1 MPa, (b) isopropanol, 0.6 MPa, and (c) ethyl acetate, 0.6 MPa.

D Inner diameter of the micropacked bed reactor, m Deff Hydrogen effective diffusion coefficient in the catalyst, m2 s−1

Fig. 5 Effect of the gas flow rate on the conversion and yield. Reaction conditions: 0.2 mol L−1 FUR, 80 °C, 0.2 mL min−1, (a) isopropanol, 0.1 MPa and (b) ethyl acetate, 0.6 MPa.

a decrease in the FA yield, in particular at a high gas flow rate. It is mainly attributed that an increase in the gas flow rate decreases the mean residence time, leading to the insufficient contact among the gas–liquid–solid catalysts. Based on the experimental results, a gas flow rate of 20 sccm was chosen as the optimized condition for the subsequent experiments.

The liquid flow rate affects the hydrodynamics and gas– liquid–solid interaction, and thus the hydrogenation performance of the reactor.41 The effect of the liquid flow rate on the hydrogenation performance of FUR is summarized in Fig. 6. From Fig. 6(a), it was concluded that the yield of FA gradually decreased with the increase of the liquid flow rate. When FUR is not completely hydrogenated, a large amount of acetal (by-product) is generated with the increase of the liquid flow rate from 0.3 to 0.5 mL min−1. The maximum yield of FA was 99.6% at 0.1 MPa and 0.1 mL min−1. Also, the yield of FA could be improved when the pressure was 0.6 MPa, and the FA yield could reach 100% at a liquid flow rate of 0.6 mL min−1 as shown in Fig. 6(b). In Fig. 6(c), when ethyl acetate was used as the solvent, the yield of FA tended to increase and then decrease with the increase of the liquid flow rate. The maximum FA yield value of 99.9% was obtained at 0.6 mL min−1. The main reason is the decreased residence time and elevated liquid hold-up caused by the increase of the liquid flow rate from 0.2 to 0.6 mL min−1, which reduces the occurrence of the side reaction of hydrogenation of FA to 2-MF and enhances the external mass transfer. When the liquid flow rate is further increased from 0.6 to 1.0 mL min−1, the influence of the mean residence time is significant, resulting in the insufficient hydrogenation of FUR in μPBRs. To achieve a rapid synthesis of FA, ethyl acetate is a more suitable solvent compared to isopropanol.

