(1) Elvira, K. S.; Casadevall i Solvas, X.; Wootton, R. C. R.; deMello, A. J. The Past, Present and Potential for Microfluidic Reactor Technology in Chemical Synthesis. Nat. Chem. 2013, 5, 905−915. (2) Jähnisch, K.; Hessel, V.; Löwe, H.; Baerns, M. Chemistry in Microstructured Reactors. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2004, 43, 406−446. (3) Pastre, J. C.; Browne, D. L.; Ley, S. V. Flow Chemistry Syntheses of Natural Products. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2013, 42, 8849−8869. (4) Hartman, R. L.; McMullen, J. P.; Jensen, K. F. Deciding Whether To Go with the Flow: Evaluating the Merits of Flow Reactors for Synthesis. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2011, 50, 7502−7519. (5) Wang, N.; Matsumoto, T.; Ueno, M.; Miyamura, H.; Kobayashi, S. A Gold-Immobilized Microchannel Flow Reactor for Oxidation of Alcohols with Molecular Oxygen. Angew. Chem. 2009, 121, 4838− 4840. (6) Zotova, N.; Hellgardt, K.; Kelsall, G. H.; Jessiman, A. S.; Hii, K. K. Catalysis in Flow: The Practical and Selective Aerobic Oxidation of Alcohols to Aldehydes and Ketones. Green Chem. 2010, 12, 2157− 2163. (7) Kiwi-Minsker, L.; Renken, A. Microstructured Reactors for Catalytic Reactions. Catal. Today 2005, 110, 2−14. (8) Cao, E. H.; Sankar, M.; Firth, S.; Lam, K. F.; Bethell, D.; Knight, D. K.; Hutchings, G. J.; McMillan, P. F.; Gavriilidis, A. Reaction and

Recently, membrane microreactors have drawn growing interest, as they combine the benefits of both the membrane reactor and the microreactor.10,11 Gas and liquid phases can flow separately with a well-defined contacting interface and high mass and heat transfer rates. A tube-in-tube configuration employing a semipermeable Teflon AF-2400 tube as the contact interface for gas and liquid has recently been proposed by Ley's group.12,13 This material is permeable to a wide range of gases but is impermeable to liquids. This controlled method

2.2. Tube-in-Tube Microreactor Setup. The schematic representation of the tube-in-tube microreactor used in this work is shown in Figure 1. The reactor comprises an inner

Heterogeneous catalytic gas−liquid reactions are an important category in synthetic chemistry, with great significance for both laboratory research and industrial applications. Conventionally, such reactions are performed in a batch reactor, and the phases are brought in contact by mechanical stirring. However, this results in a poorly defined interfacial contact area and renders scale-up more complex.1,2 Additionally, the immediate contact of the phases raises safety concerns for hazardous reactions like oxidation reactions. Over the past decade, microreactor technology has emerged as an eﬃcient tool for chemical synthesis.3 The intrinsic advantages associated with such reactors are the high eﬃciency of heat and mass transfer, because of the high surface-area-to-volume ratio, as well as the high-resolution reaction time control.1,2,4 The small physical scale can also significantly enhance safety.5,6 Several types of microreactors have been developed for gas−liquid−solid reactions,7 including the coated-wall microreactor,5 the packed-bed microreactor,8 and the "slurry Taylor" flow microreactor.9

3.1. Oxygen Permeation. The amount of oxygen dissolved in benzyl alcohol is an important factor for the evaluation of the tube-in-tube microreactor.14 When the benzyl alcohol leaves the BPR, the dissolved oxygen escapes from the liquid because of the pressure diﬀerence between the reactor and the outlet. Assuming the residual gas in the fluid at the outlet is the same as that in the inlet (benzyl alcohol presaturated with oxygen at 1 bara and room temperature), the volume of oxygen released per unit volume of benzyl alcohol equates approximately to the oxygen permeated while the liquid is passing through the reactor. This was measured using the traditional buret method.19 During the measurement, the tube-in-tube microreactor was kept at 120 °C, and the liquid outlet was connected to a buret filled with benzyl alcohol (presaturated with oxygen at 1 bara and room temperature). The duration for collecting a fixed volume of oxygen in the buret was recorded for diﬀerent liquid flow rates and absolute gas pressures in the annulus. Thus, the outgassing rate of oxygen could be calculated. The average liquid residence time was calculated by the tube length divided by the superficial velocity of the liquid in the inner tube. From Figure 3, it can be noted that initially the outgassing rate increased gradually with residence time at each set gas

pressure regulator (Swagelok, U.S.). When the temperature reached the desired value, liquid benzyl alcohol (99.0%, Sigma- Aldrich, U.S.) was supplied into the tube-in-tube microreactor by a HPLC pump (Knauer P2.1S, Germany). The temperature of the fluid reached the required reaction temperature before entering the catalyst bed, as observed by temperature measurements inside the inner tube. The collected sample was quantitatively analyzed by a gas chromatograph (Agilent 6890, U.S.) fitted with a HP-INNOWax capillary column and a flame ionization detector. Benzyl alcohol conversion (Xtotal) and selectivity (S) to each product were calculated according to the following equations

annulus and the inner tube; thus, more oxygen permeates and results in more benzyl alcohol reacting. 3.4. Eﬀect of Catalyst Contact Time in Packed Tube- in-Tube Microreactor. The eﬀect of catalyst contact time was investigated by changing the flow rate of benzyl alcohol, keeping the same mass of catalyst. The results are shown in Figure 5. The conversion increased from 26.1% to 46.9%, and

This conversion in Table 1b was just 0.07%. Assuming that all the oxygen dissolved in the liquid flow (∼0.5 mL/mLalcohol estimated from Figure 3) was consumed through oxidation reaction, the theoretical maximum XO would be 0.43%. Next, the reactor with the catalyst packed in the semi- permeable tube-in-tube microreactor was evaluated (Figure 1). From Table 1c, it can be seen that the conversion of benzyl alcohol increased dramatically compared to the other two approaches at the same reaction temperature and gas pressure. The selectivity to benzaldehyde was about 30% higher than that of toluene. This improvement in the performance of the tube- in-tube microreactor was due to the increased amount of oxygen participating in the reaction, based on the correspond- ing XO. The amount of consumed oxygen calculated from XO is 12.4 mL/mLalcohol, which is ca. 150 times higher than 0.08 mL/ mLalcohol calculated for oxygen-presaturated benzyl alcohol. Comparing this value (12.4 mL/mLalcohol) with the outgassing rate in Figure 3 (∼0.5 mL/mLalcohol) shows that oxygen permeation during the reaction was enhanced, because an oxygen concentration gradient was sustained across the semipermeable tube wall. This makes the packed tube-in-tube microreactor more eﬃcient for three-phase reactions compared with nonpermeable PTFE reactor configurations with oxygen- presaturated feed (Figure 2b).

selectivity to benzaldehyde from 58.6% to 67.5%, when catalyst contact time increased from 46 to 230 gcat·s/galcohol. Correspondingly, the selectivity to toluene decreased from 38.4% to 29.3% at the investigated catalyst contact time range. This conversion trend agrees with that in a batch and packed- bed microreactor. However, the selectivities to benzaldehyde and toluene in both batch and microreactor, where oxygen was in excess, remained practically constant with catalyst contact time.8 The selectivity diﬀerences in the tube-in-tube micro- reactor were probably caused by the insuﬃcient amount of oxygen in the liquid. It should be noted that the plot of XO also

The conversion increased from 78.5% at 2.1 bara to ca. 95% at 5 bara, and the selectivity to benzaldehyde increased from 57.7% to 77.8% in a packed-bed microreactor with oxygen− alcohol mixture feed.8

