the three microreactors. As can be inferred from Fig. 5a, the τ has a positive effect on the X for three microreactors, which is consistent with that observed by (Jin et al., 2023; Yang et al., 2022a), and the heart-shaped and diamond-shaped microreactors are superior to the zigzag-shaped microreactor for the comparison of Xs. Moreover, in the range of 60–70 s, the rate of variation decreases for the heart-shaped and diamond-shaped microreactors, and the maximum X under the process parameters is around 85 %. For the zigzag-shaped microreactor, there exists an optimal X of 76.6 % at the residence time of 50 s. For the MNT isomers selectivity S, due to the excellent heat transfer performance and temperature control property of microreactors, the channel structures have little effect on the molar ratio of the o-MNT, the m-MNT, and the p-MNT, and from the MNT selectivity results in Fig. 5b, the microreactors demonstrate satisfying suppression of the side re- actions and the generation of dinitrotoluence (DNT), the average MNT isomers selectivity S is around 90 %, and the percentages of the o-MNT, the m-MNT, and the p-MNT are 56 %, 4 %, and 40 %, respectively. The optimal residence time range is 40–60 s. For the NCB preparation, the reaction temperature T is set as 60 ◦C, the chlorobenzene-nitric-sulfur molar ratio is fixed at 1:1.2:2.0, and the residence time τ is kept at the 30 s, 40 s, 50 s, 60 s, 70 s, respectively. Fig. 6 shows the chlorobenzene conversion rate and NCB isomer selec- tivity under different residence time τs. and the sort from best to worst is the heart-shaped microreactor, the diamond-shaped microreactor, and

heart-shaped, diamond-shaped, and zigzag-shaped microreactors, are designed and fabricated, effects of temperature, residence time, and molar ratio, on TOL and CB nitrification are investigated, and the orthogonal experiments are further conducted to determine the opti- mum reaction conditions. Due to the excellent heat transfer performance and temperature control property of microreactors, the channel structures, residence time τ, have little effect on the isomer molar ratio of MNT and NCB, which demonstrate satisfying suppression of the side reactions. At relatively higher temperatures and molar ratios, the counter flow and identical microchannel configuration of both sides for the zigzag shaped microreactor has the maximum temperature difference, which means the substantial occurrence of side reactions and byproducts. For the TOL nitrification of heart-shaped, diamond-shaped, and zigzag-shaped microreactors, the optimum process conditions are ob- tained at reaction temperatures of 70 ◦C, 80 ◦C, and 70 ◦C, residence times of 70 s, 60 s, and 70 s, molar ratios of 1.0:1.2:1.8, 1.0:1.3:1.8, and 1.0:1.4:1.8, respectively. For the CB nitrification, the optimum process conditions are obtained at reaction temperatures of 90 ◦C, 80 ◦C, and 80 ◦C, residence times of 60 s, 50 s, and 70 s, molar ratios of 1.0:1.2:2.0, 1.0:1.1:2.0, and 1.0:1.0:2.0, respectively. For the optimum yield of the MNT, the heart-shaped microreactor has the highest value of 91.49, followed by the diamond-shaped and the zigzag-shaped microreactors, which is 89.91 and 89.81 respectively; For the NCB preparation, the highest yield of 93.95 is obtained by the heart shaped microreactor, and the yields of the diamond-shaped and the zigzag-shaped microreactors are 91.51 and 88.25, respectively.

Variables c the molar concentration, mol/L Q the volume flow rate, mL/s S the selectivity of the reaction product V the liquid holdup of the reaction sheet, mL X the conversion rate Y the yield of the reaction product

where τ is the residence time, s; VMR is the liquid holdup of the reaction sheet for microreactors, mL; Qaq and Qor are the volume flow rates of the aqueous phase(mixed acid) and the organic phase (TOL/CB), mL/s, respectively. The TOL/CB conversion X is defined as:

inadequate conversion rate, and a longer residence time can cause un- desirable side reactions and byproducts. The preparation of MNT/NCB by aromatics nitrification with mixed acid are rapid, strong-exothermic reaction, and the flow rate of the reactant is a crucial factor for inter- phase mass transfer and flow pattern, in which the effects of residence time on the conversion and selectivity of MNT and NCB preparation are investigated by changing the total volume flow rate of the aqueous phase and the organic phase. For the MNT preparation, the reaction temperature T is set as 60 ◦C, the TOL-nitric-sulfur molar ratio is fixed at 1:1.2:1.7, and the residence time τ is 30 s, 40 s, 50 s, 60 s, 70 s, respectively. Fig. 5 shows the toluene conversion rate and MNT isomers selectivity under different residence time τs. Generally, the shorter residence time τ means a tighter reactant contact time, a higher total volume flow rate, and more adequate mix- ing, the combined influence on the TOL conversion rate is different for

mance and repeatability verification tests are conducted under the op- timum process conditions of microreactors, and the consistency is satisfying after multiple samplings. The average results are shown in Table 3. As can be seen from Table 3a, for the yield of the MNT, the heart shaped microreactor has the highest value of 91.49, followed by the diamond-shaped and the zigzag-shaped microreactors, which is 89.91 and 89.81 respectively, and the differences in performance are not obvious, the TOL conversion rates are 100 % for the former two reactors. For the NCB preparation, the highest yield of 93.95 is obtained by the heart-shaped microreactor, and the yields of the diamond-shaped and the zigzag-shaped microreactors are 91.51 and 88.25, respectively.

3.2. The mixing and mass transfer mechanisms in three microreactors

after the microchannel cavity of reactants which can realize the continuous flow reaction and chemical production. The characteristic size of the internal channel is generally between 10 and 1000 μm, therefore, the low flow velocity can maintain a laminar flow, and the large specific surface area facilitates the high heat and mass transfer efficiency, avoiding local overheating (Masoni et al., 2023). The dead-zone-free microchannel design minimizes the axial back-mixing, precisely regulating the reactant residence time, and inhibiting the occurrence of side reactions to the greatest extent (Karaghiosoff et al., 2023). Moreover, due to the milliliter-level holdup volume in a single reaction channel, it has significant advantages in dealing with high-risk reactions and improving intrinsic safety (Zhan et al., 2023). Moreover, the potential in heat and mass transfer enhancement of microreactors made them suitable for fluidization of catalyst solid particles (Latifi et al., 2014), adsorption bed (Grabowska et al., 2018; Grabowska et al., 2021a; Grabowska et al., 2021b; Krzywanski et al., 2021; Krzywanski et al., 2023; Kulakowska et al., 2020; Sosnowski et al., 2018), and the porous media (Grabowska et al., 2021a; Krzywanski, 2019) in reactors. In recent years, many microfluidic systems have been built to achieve the process intensification and to obtain the reaction kinetic models of various nitrification reactions, such as p-Nitrotoluene (Song et al., 2022), nitrobenzene (Jin et al., 2023), o-xylene (Guo et al., 2023b), trifluoromethylbenzen (Guo et al., 2023a), and chlorobenzene(Cui et al., 2022), etc. Scholars have proposed a variety of structures to enhance reactant mixing and mass transfer. Many novel structures have been reported, T-shaped (Masoni et al., 2023), capillary-shaped (Zhan et al.,

ysis of the MNT and NCB selectivity, the optimum process conditions of the three microreactors are listed in Table 2. According to the above results, the MNT/NCB preparation perfor-

ped with two PTFE metering pumps, PTFE connection pipes, a high and low-temperature circulation device, a thermal oil gear pump, and a quenching and sampling module. The diagram and the picture of the microreactor test apparatus part are shown in Fig. 4. The general experimental procedure is as follows: Wait until the thermal oil of the heat transfer side is heated to the preset temperature, open the inlet stop valve of the microreactor to be tested, and pump aromatic and mixed acid solution into the microreactor for mixing and reaction, after at least 5 times the residence time and the system is stable, sampling and drop it into the sample bottle pre-filled with a mixture of water and ethyl acetate which was placed in an ice-water mixture bath, and after 5 minutes of magnetic stirring, stationary for 10 minutes until the aqueous phase and the organic phase is completely stratified. During the test procedure, the flow rates of thermal oil on the heat transfer side of the microreactors are adjusted to the maximum by the gear pump and valves, for the heart-shaped and diamond-shaped microreactors, the flow rates of thermal oil are 550 L/h, for the zigzag-shaped microreactor, the flow rate is 155 L/h.

During the toluene and chlorobenzene nitrification reaction test, firstly, the effects of residence time τ, reaction temperature T, TOL/CB nitrate-sulfur molar ratio on the conversion and selectivity of MNT and NCB are investigated. Then, the orthogonal experimental design is conducted to determine the optimal process conditions. The residence time τ is defined as:

respectively. The toluene conversion rate and MNT isomer selectivity under different molar ratios are illustrated in Fig. 9. With the increase of the aromatics-nitric-sulfur molar ratio, the conversion rate X of toluene increases, and reaches 100 % for each microreactor at the molar ratio of 1.0:1.4:1.8. In general, the increase of molar ratio has a more significant improvement effect on the heart shaped and the zigzag-shaped microreactors. It can be seen from Fig. 9 that, the overall MNT isomer selectivity S of the heart-shaped microreactor is unimpacted by the increase of molar ratio, while the concentration of the o-MNT decreases from 49.18 to 48.11, and the p-MNT increases from 34.43 to 36.2. Therefore, a higher molar ratio can promote the production of the p-MNT, moreover, the MNT selectivity S for the diamond-shaped microreactor increases from 86.99 % to 91.89 %. For the zigzag-shaped microreactor, the MNT selectivity increases from 83.14 % to 87.58 %, and decreases sharply to 80.75 % at the molar ratio of 1.0:1.4:1.8. And the reason is that the counter flow configuration of the zigzag-shaped microreactor has the maximum heat exchange capacity and the highest end temperature difference, while the temperature variation of the co-current flow is the smallest, and the variable temperature means the substantial occurrence of side reactions and byproducts of DNT. The reaction effluent from the outlet PTFE pipe of the zigzag-shaped microreactor are shown in Fig. 10, at the molar ratio of 1.0:1.2:1.8 and 1.0:1.4:1.8, respectively. For the NCB preparation, the residence time τ is set as 60 s, the re-

2018), the reaction rate increases with the higher reaction temperatures, and due to the difference in activation energy for parallel competing reactions of o-NCB and p-NCB, the selectivity for o-NCB dominates. For the NCB preparation, the residence time τ is set as 60 s, the chlorobenzene-nitrate-sulfur molar ratio is fixed at 1.0:1.2:2.0, and the reaction temperature T is kept at 40 ◦C, 50 ◦C, 60 ◦C, 70 ◦C, and 80 ◦C, respectively. Fig. 8 shows the chlorobenzene conversion rate and NCB isomers selectivity under different reaction temperatures Ts. The selec- tivity of m-NCB was lower than 5‰, which is in accordance with that analyzed by (Cui et al., 2022). The results showed that the reaction temperature T has a positive effect on the chlorobenzene conversion rate X for both microreactors. At the same reaction temperate T, the mass transfer and mixing effect of the heart-shaped microreactor are superior to that of the diamond-shaped microreactor and the zigzag-shaped microreactor, the chlorobenzene conversion rate X is the optimal, followed by the diamond-shaped microreactor and the zigzag-shaped microreactor. As depicted in Fig. 8, the impacts of the reaction temperature T on the NCB selectivity S are not obvious, but the counter flow arrangement of the zigzag-shaped microreactor does make the NCB selectivity only slightly lower than that of the other two, therefore, the energy conversation effect is prominent. As can be seen from Fig. 8a-b, because CB nitrification reaction is milder than toluene, the inhibition effect of the side reaction of microreactors is more obvious, and the overall selectivity is much higher. The reaction temperature of 80 ◦C is selected for aromatics-nitric-sulfur molar ratio experimental investigation.

rical characteristics, namely the heart-shaped, the diamond-shaped, and the zigzag-shaped reaction channels are designed and fabricated. The channel structures for the three microreactors are illustrated in Fig. 2. The dimension of each reaction sheet is 270 mm × 150 mm (length × width), and each sheet consists of three series reaction units, for the heart-shaped and the diamond-shaped, the minimum flow regions are rectangle cross-sections of 1.5 mm × 0.75 mm. For the heart-shaped microreactor, each microcavity is partly occupied by cylindrical and arc-cylindrical solid metal obstacles and uniformly distributed in a sin- gle pass through the reactant-side inlets and outlets, likewise, the diamond-shaped microreactor is partly occupied by staggered diamond shaped obstacles of inconsistent sizes. For the heat transfer side chan- nels, heart-shaped and diamond-shaped microreactors are rectangular channels with a width × height of 10 mm×1.5 mm, which is much larger than the reaction side in liquid holdup volume and cross-section areas, and the overall serpentine co-flow arrangement is the most

3.3.2. Effects of reaction temperature T on TOL/CB nitrification The reaction temperature has a significant impact on the aromatic nitrification efficiency of the microreactors because of their superior heat transfer performance and temperature control feature. To investi- gate the effects of reaction temperature T on the MNT preparation, the residence time τ is set as 60 s, the toluene-nitric-sulfur molar ratio is fixed at 1:1.2:1.7, and the reaction temperature T is set at 40 ◦C, 50 ◦C, 60 ◦C, 70 ◦C, and 80 ◦C, respectively. Fig. 7 shows the toluene conver- sion rate and MNT isomer selectivity under different reaction tempera- tures Ts. As shown in Fig. 7, the variation of toluene conversion X shows similar trends for the three microreactors, according to the kinetics model of aromatics nitrification, a higher reaction temperature T can accelerate the rate of each reaction, thus, the overall conversion rate X of toluene increases significantly in the beginning, however, for the heart shaped and zigzag-shaped microreactors, the promotion of higher tem- perature decreases gradually within the range of reaction temperature 70–80 ◦C, the reason behind maybe in two aspects, as the nitrification reaction proceeds, the concentration of toluene and nitric acid decreases gradually, and the reaction rate decreases accordingly, moreover, some nitronium ion NO2 + continued to react with MNT to generate 2,6 and 2,4 dinitrotoluene (DNT), resulting in a decrease in MNT selectivity, which can be concluded from the slight decrease in overall MNT isomer selectivity at 80 ◦C and 90 ◦C in Fig. 7b. For the MNT isomer selectivity S, with the increase of reaction temperature T, the relative proportion of m-MNT and p-MNT increase, and the o-MNT decreases. Moreover, for the zigzag-shaped micro- reactor, the overall MNT selectivity decreases gradually, this is due to the countercurrent flow arrangement between the reaction side and the thermal oil side, and the thermal oil side are identical zigzag micro- channels with a much smaller flow rate of 155 L/h, which is much lower than that of 550 L/h for the rectangular large channel of the heart shaped and diamond-shaped microreactors. Even though the energy consumption has dropped a lot when the reaction temperature exceeds 60 ◦C, the MNT selectivity slowly decreases, and the amount of DNT gradually begins to accumulate. In addition to studying trends with temperature changes, conversion and selectivity, whether the raw ma- terial can be consumed completely is a matter of great concern to chemical engineers, as it is often highly correlated with the economics of production. Since toluene has not been completely converted in all re- actors, in order to explore the limitation of the performance of the microreactors and comprehensively consider MNT selectivity and en- ergy consumption, the reaction temperature of 80 ◦C is selected. According to the related literatures (Cui et al., 2022; Wen et al.,

where cj is the molar concentration of the analyzed target product (MNT/NCB, or each isomer), mol/L. The yield of the MNT/NCB is calculated as:

Latifi, M., Berruti, F., Briens, C., 2014. A novel fluidized and induction heated microreactor for catalyst testing. AICHE J. 60, 3107–3122.

Aromatic nitrification with mixed acid is an important industrial reaction with fast, strong-exothermic, and high risk reaction characteristics. To investigate the promotion for the preparation of nitrotoluene (MNT) and nitrochlorobenzene (NCB), three microreactors with different structural features, namely, heart-shaped, dia- mond-shaped, and zigzag-shaped microreactors, are designed and fabricated. Firstly, the effects of temperature, residence time, and molar ratio on toluene (TOL) and chlorobenzene (CB) nitrification are investigated, and orthogonal experiments are further conducted to determine the optimum reaction conditions. Results showed that channel structures and the residence time τ have negligible effects on the isomers selectivity of the three microreactors, and higher reaction temperatures and mole ratios would lead to the substantial occurrence of side reactions and byproducts in the zigzag microreactor. The heart-shaped microreactor has the highest value of 91.49 % for the MNT's optimal yield, followed by the diamond-shaped and zigzag-shaped microreactors (89.91 % and 89.81 %, respectively). The heart-shaped microreactor provides the maximum amount of NCB preparation (93.95 %), while the yields of the diamond-shaped and zigzag-shaped microreactors are 91.51 % and 88.25 %, respectively. This work provides the experimental basis for the efficient preparation and industrial scale-up of aromatic nitrification in microreactors.

The mixing and mass transfer mechanisms of Aromatic nitrification which has been extensively investigated and reported in previous liter- ature(Cox, 1971; Song et al., 2022). The liquid-liquid two-phase nitri- fication reaction of TOL and CB occurs in the mixed acid phase, therefore, the interphase mass transfer effect determines the reaction rate of the nitrification process. The channel dimensions of the micro- reactors are in submillimeter magnitude, and the viscosity of the acid phase is high. For the flat micro-channel, the flow pattern is laminar flow with a low Reynolds number, and the mass transfer mainly depends on molecular diffusion, and the residence time required for complete mixing is long, consequently, the chemical reaction effect is unsatisfy- ing. When a heart-shaped or diamond-shaped reaction channel is used, the organic phase and the mixed acid phase constantly collide with

frequently used configuration although the energy consumption is extremely high, and cause adverse consequence for production amplification. Meanwhile, the reaction channels and heat supply side channels of the zigzag-shaped microreactor of internal numbering-up type are identical semicircular cross-sections of radius 0.75 mm, and the zigzag angle is 30. The liquid holdup volume and cross-section areas on two sides are the same and the countercurrent flow arrangement can obtain larger heat exchange capacity and thus better energy saving effect. Therefore, to explores the influences of channel structures, reaction conditions, and operation process parameters on MNT and NCB prepa- ration, the heart-shaped and the diamond-shaped microreactors have the co-flow arrangement with unequal liquid holdup volume and cross section areas, and the zigzag-shaped microreactor has a countercurrent flow arrangement with an identical liquid holdup volume and cross section areas for two sides. The sheet layout and physical drawings of the microreactors are depicted in Fig. 3. The total holdups of three microreactors are 6.74, 6.65, and 6.82 mL respectively. The chemical reaction sheet (side A) and the heat transfer sheet (side B) are stacked into a "BAB" double banking layout to ensure better temperature control for each microreactor. For the test apparatus,

