A schematic of the continuous hydrogenation system based on a micro-packed bed reactor is shown in Fig. 1. Since NEC is solid at ambient temperature with a melting point of 68 ~ 70 ℃, it is difficult to pump it directly into the reaction system. Hence, it was dissolved into methylcyclohexane for the subsequent hydrogenation process. The liquid substrate was injected into the system via a plunger pump (Ou Shi Sheng Technology Co., Ltd.) and was premixed with the gas in a micromixer before entering the reactor. The gas flow rate was controlled by a mass flow controller (Beijing Sevenstar Electronics Co., Ltd.). The micro-packed bed reactor (Length: 25 cm, inner diameter: 3.87 mm,

outer diameter: 6.3 mm) was filled with catalysts for the heterogeneous hydrogenation process. The reactor temperature was controlled by an electric heating jacket, while the system pressure was regulated by an outlet pressure regulator. As the pressure difference between the inflow and outflow of the reactor was negligible, the system pressure could be assumed to remain constant during the reaction. The micro-packed bed reactor was initially purged with nitrogen before hydrogen was fed at a fixed flow rate. When the system pressure reached the required pressure and the temperature of the electric heating jacket reached the set value, the substrate was fed at a specific flow rate. After running for at least three times the liquid residence time, the system reached a steady state [23] and samples were collected for analysis. The heating jacket was turned off, and the system was depressurized at the end of the reaction. The solvent and nitrogen were used to substitute the liquid substrate and hydrogen. The catalysts were stored in a nitrogen atmosphere. Based on our previous studies on liquid holdup in a micro-packed bed reactor [21], the liquid residence time (τ) can be calculated by the following equation:

Keywords: Liquid organic hydrogen carrier N-ethylcarbazole hydrogenation Micro-packed bed reactor Continuous flow Kinetics

3.5.1. External diffusion In order to investigate the effect of external diffusion, the influence of liquid superficial velocities (liquid flow rate / cross-sectional area of the packed bed) on the reaction rate was explored. The reaction rates at different liquid superficial velocities with the same residence time were obtained by using reactors with the same volume (2.0 mL) but different inner diameters (3.87 mm, 4.3 mm, 4.6 mm).

Fig. 1. Schematic diagram of the continuous flow hydrogenation system based on a micro-packed bed reactor for N-ethylcarbazole hydrogenation.

approximate plug flow [21], thus providing significant advantages in mass and heat transfer efficiency [18] and precise control of reaction conditions. It can improve the selectivity to 12H-NEC and further in­ crease the mass hydrogen storage density. Micro-packed bed reactors have been successfully applied in several hydrogenation reactions, such as reductive amination [22], hydrogenation of heterocyclic nitro­ aromatics [23] and hydrogenolysis [24]. However, little research on the application of continuous flow technology in NEC hydrogenation has been reported as far as we know. Chen et al. reported the NEC hydro­ genation reactions in a stainless-steel tubular reactor (10.0 mm i.d.) with 100 % conversion and 98 % selectivity using Ru/Al2O3 at 180 ℃ and 5 MPa [25]. But the optimization of the hydrogenation process was not performed. Therefore, a more detailed investigation of NEC hydroge­ nation in continuous flow reactors is urgently required. NEC hydrogenation is a complex reaction involving multiple kinet­ ically stable intermediates, thus the study of kinetic networks is essential for reactor design and process optimization. Sun et al. found that the NEC hydrogenation process followed pseudo-first-order kinetics over Raney Ni and the activation energy was 115 kJ/mol [10]. Sotoodeh et al. described the NEC hydrogenation process as a network of stepwise hy­ drogenation reactions containing six substances, assuming that the re­ actions were first-order in the concentration of the heteroaromatic organic compounds and zero-order in hydrogen [26]. These kinetic studies were conducted in batch reactors and often were limited by mass and heat transfer. Continuous flow technology is ideal for kinetic ex­ periments because of its enhanced mass and heat transfer and precise control of residence time [27]. However, to the best of our knowledge, there have been no reports on the kinetics of NEC hydrogenation in a continuous flow reactor. This research established a continuous hydrogenation system for N ethylcarbazole based on a micropacked bed reactor. The effects of cat­ alysts and various reaction parameters (temperature, hydrogen pres­ sure, and gas flow rate) were investigated, and the stability of the hydrogenation system was evaluated. Furthermore, the corresponding kinetic network model was established in micropacked bed reactors. This work can provide a feasible and promising strategy for the continuous hydrogenation of LOHCs.

where D (mm) and L (cm) represent the inner diameter and the length of the packed bed; ε represents the bed porosity; h is the liquid holdup, which can be obtained according to the previous study [21]; FL is the liquid flow rate.

Fig. 6. Effect of liquid superficial velocity on the average reaction rate. Reaction conditions: NEC concentration: 2.5 wt%, system pressure: 1 MPa, gas flow rate: 30 sccm, reaction temperature: 160 ℃.

A kinetic study is of great significance for reactor scale-up, process optimization, and safety management. The reaction rate is often controlled by kinetics or mass transfer. Before establishing the kinetic model, the mass transfer performance should be considered. According to previous research, mass transfer in a gas–liquid-solid catalytic system generally involves three steps: the dissolution of H2 in the liquid, the diffusion of dissolved H2 from the gas–liquid interface to the solid catalyst surface, and intraparticle diffusion to the active catalytic sites [24]. Hence, experiments and calculations were conducted to verify that

reaction rate is no longer controlled by the external mass transfer resistance when the liquid superficial velocity exceeds 5.1 cm/min. Subsequent kinetic experiments were carried out on the basis that the external diffusion had been eliminated.

