type micromixer, 0.25 mm; packing size of the micropacked-bed reactor, 0.177–0.250 mm. c packing size, 0.177–0.250 mm; organic phase flow rate, 3 mL/min. d the ID of T-type micromixer, 0.25 mm; organic phase flow rate, 4 mL/min

The platforms of continuous nitration are illustrated in Fig. 1. On feed was the mixed acid of sulfuric acid and nitric acid. The other feed was 1 or the mixture of 1 and 2. Both of them were pumped into the preheating tube (ID, 0.80 mm; OD, 1.60 mm; 316 L) by two constant flux pumps (Beijing Xingda Science and Technology Development Co., Ltd.; flow rate, 0–30.00 mL/min; pressure range, 0–20 MPa), respective- ly. These two streams mixed in the T-type micromixer (ID, 0.25 mm; SS316L; Valco Instruments Co. Inc.), and then passed through the reaction tubes switched by the switch valve. The reaction tubes had three types: a thin tube (ID, 0.75 mm; OD, 1.60 mm; ETFE), a thick tube (ID, 4 mm; OD, 6 mm; 316 L), and a micropacked-bed reactor (ID, 4 mm; OD, 6 mm; 316 L; filled with glass beads; PTFE mesh (0.150 mm) set at both ends to fix the glass beads). Three kinds of glass beads (ASONE Co.) were used in with the micropacked-bed reactor, of which the size was 0.177– 0.250 mm, 0.350–0.500 mm, and 0.500–0.710 mm, respec- tively. Correspondingly, the void fraction was determined to be 34%, 38%, and 40%, respectively. The packing density was kept at about 1.5–1.6 g/cm3. The length of reaction tubes adjusted according to the required residence time; the reaction tubes were placed vertically, and the fluid flowed from top to bottom. The connecting tube between the micromixer and the reaction tubes was 5 cm in length and 0.75 mm in ID. After a certain residence time, the effluent was collected by a sample bottle with ice water to quench the reaction. For the isothermal nitration, preheating tubes, the T-type micromixer, and reaction tubes were placed in a water bath (± 0.5 °C; ZNCL-GS-CX30; Henan Aibote Technology Development Co. Ltd.), as shown in Fig. 1a. And for the adiabatic nitration, preheating tubes were placed in a water bath; the T-type micromixer, connecting tube, and reaction tubes were wrapped by multiple layers of thermal insulation cotton (including the materials with very low thermal conduc- tivity, such as the glass fiber, the aluminum silicate fiber, the rubber-plastic sponge) to provide a nearly adiabatic

where ΔHm is reaction heat; cp is the heat capacity of the fluid; m is the mass flow rate of the substance; ΔT is the reaction temperature rise; n1 is the molar flow rate of 1. We further assumed that the reaction was irreversible, the reaction system was completely insulated; and the density, heat capacity, and enthalpy did not change during the reaction proceeding. The relationship between conversion X and tem- perature rise ΔT can be described as:

tube, due to its small inner diameter, the initial dispersion was relatively good, but the phase separation in sequence could not be avoided (as shown in Fig. S3(a)), corresponding to a quick- ly decreased conversion rate. In contrast, the micropacked-bed reactor can enable and keep a microdispersion state through- out the system. As shown in Fig. S3(b), well-dispersed organ- ic phase droplets can be obtained at the end of the micropacked-bed reactor. Even at low flow rates (1 mL/min of organic phase flow rate), the micropacked-bed reactor can still achieve effective two-phase dispersion. This difference between the liquid-liquid two-phase reaction in the micropacked-bed reactor and the thin tube was similar to what Kappe et al. [10] reported in the generation of dichlorocarbene utilizing the classical biphasic reaction of aqueous sodium hydroxide and chloroform system. Therefore, the reaction was complete in short residence time, and the reaction effi- ciency was greatly improved. Figure 4c and d show the effects of the system configura- tion on the adiabatic nitration reaction. As we know, the micromixer mainly provides an initial two-phase dispersion. A suddenly expanded connecting tube after a T-type micromixer was beneficial to provide instantaneous and rapid mixing [13]. However, as seen from Fig. 4c, compared with

the micropacked-bed reactor, the T-type micromixer had lim- ited influence on the reaction conversion, and the reaction is mainly completed in the micropacked-bed. As shown in Fig. 4d, the smaller the packing particles are, the sooner a complete conversion platform appeared. To achieve 90% conversion, it took about 1 s for smaller packing size (0.177–0.250 mm) and about 3 s for larger packing size (0.350–0.500 mm). But smaller particles corresponded to higher pressure drop (more details can be found in Supplementary Information). Therefore, it requires to make a compromise between the mixing performance and the system pressure drop. Overall, through the optimization of the reaction conditions and system configuration, the nitration of 1 could proceed sufficiently within the residence time of 5 s by using an adia- batic micropacked-bed reactor. The partial product circulation could control the adiabatic reaction temperature reliably and flexibly, assuring the selectivity not less than 89%. We sum- marized different operation processes for comparisons, as shown in Table S2. The intensification strategy with the com- bination of a micropacked-bed reactor and a partial product circulation took distinct advantages in productivity, safety, and controllability (more details can be found in Table S3, Supplementary Information).

ratio, 1.01; flow rate ratio of the organic and mixed acid, 1:2.44; (b) reaction temperature, 40 °C; the flow rate ratio of the organic and mixed acid varied with nitration ratio

organic phase, 1: 2 = 1:3; the molar ratio of organic feed (1 + 2) and sulfuric acid, 1:4; nitration ratio, 1.1; flow rate ratio of the organic and mixed acid, 6:12.8; the ID of T-type micromixer, 0.25 mm; packing size of the micropacked-bed reactor, 0.177–0.250 mm

For an adiabatic reaction process, the activation energy is an important parameter determining the apparent reaction kinet- ics. An accurate determination of the activation energy is a fundamental of process design, for which a common method is to carry out a serial of isothermal reactions under different temperatures. However, since the nitration reaction is relative- ly violent and the absolute isothermal reaction conditions can- not be well controlled, this method does not work well. Besides, the acquisition of kinetic data under isothermal con- dition usually needs complicated sampling procedures and chemical analysis, bringing high cost and low efficiency. Herein, we attempted to rapidly obtain the kinetic parameters under adiabatic conditions by interpreting the profile of tem- perature along the flowing direction [36]. Based on the above reaction kinetic characteristics, it could be assumed that the reaction kinetics is almost controlled by the micropacked-bed reactor. The experimental data (those adopted at the organic phase flow rate of 6 mL/min) was processed with the

where ΔTmax is the reaction temperature rise correspond- ing to complete conversion. According to the Arrhenius equation k ¼ Ae−Ea=RT and Eq. 5, Eq. 2 can transform into the following form:

can be calculated from the adiabatic temperature rise [35] (more details can be found in Supplementary Information). As shown in Table 1, when there were more raw materials in the feed and the temperature rise was higher, the calculated reaction heat was relatively high, which may be caused by secondary reactions such as the decomposition of nitric acid. When the mass ratio of raw material to the product was 1:3, the temperature rise was low, and the calculated reaction heat (−139.15 kJ/mol) was similar to that obtained from the stan- dard enthalpy of formation (−142.53 kJ/mol), indicating that the scope of reaction temperature was appropriate and the secondary reaction could be ignored. Under this condition, the conversion could be calculated from the ratio of the actual temperature rise to the maximal temperature rise, and the se- lectivity was also similar to that of the isothermal temperature reaction. In the other words, the introduction of partial product circulation enabled the controllability of the adiabatic nitrifi- cation of 1 at the circulation ratio of 3:1 (the recirculation rate to the discharge rate); the utilization of a micropacked-bed reactor can retain the micro-dispersion state and enhance the apparent reaction kinetics significantly. Furthermore, the data of temperature obtained by different temperature measurement points can convert into the data of conversion and residence time (more details can be found in Supplementary Information). In this way, the reaction kinetics information under adiabatic conditions can be acquired effi- ciently, bringing conveniences in process investigation and improvement. Herein, we investigated the effects of system configuration and operation conditions to find a way towards effective and controllable process intensification. As shown in Fig. 4a, increasing the flow rate was beneficial to improve the mixing effect of the two phases, thereby accel- erating the reaction conversion. Figure 4b shows the compar- ison of three different configurations at high and low capaci- ties. Because the thick tube had a large inner diameter and was lack of extra turbulence, the two phases were easily separated and the conversion was extremely low. As for the thin coil

Compared with traditional batch reaction, continuous flow can better control the reaction parameters and may help com- plete the reaction in a shorter time and with better selectivity, which is of great benefit to the nitration reaction with rapid and strong exothermic reaction characteristics [11]. In recent years, the reported substrates of the nitration process under continuous flow control mainly included o-nitrotoluene [24], 5-bromo-2-amino-4-methylpyridine [6], 2-ethylhexanol [12], trifluoromethoxybenzene [29, 30], benzaldehyde [19], di- methyl aniline [22], 3-fluorobenzotrifluoride [2], and o-toluic [33], among others. Most of these works were carried out under isothermal conditions, which helped to study the kinet- ics and improve reaction selectivity. But it often requires a lot of cold sources to remove the nitration reaction heat to main- tain the constant temperature for the reaction. Due to the strong exothermic and fast reaction characteristics of nitration, even under the microfluidic control, absolute isothermal con- ditions cannot be well guaranteed upon the two phases are mixed, which will be more difficult in industrial scale-up. In contrast, for adiabatic nitration, it does not need the cold source to control reaction temperature, and the reaction can be accelerated by its reaction heat, corresponding low-energy consumption, and reliable process control [18]. Su et al. [33] conducted dinitration of o-toluic acid in an adiabatic continuous-flow system to obtain optimal residence time. The HPLC yields of product 3,5-dinitro-2-methylbenzoic acid between the isothermal (130 °C) and adiabatic (room temper- ature to 173 °C) conditions were similar, but the energy con- sumption of adiabatic reactions was greatly reduced. However, until now, the reports on the adiabatic nitra- tion process in microfluidics were still limited [18, 32, 33]. Most of them only proved that the reaction under adiabatic was feasible, and the optimization of reaction conditions including the residence time was just based on conditional experiments, which was unable to sup- port quantitative process analysis and design towards further application. Besides, although the micromixer can provide a good dis- persion state for the liquid-liquid two phases instantaneously, the dispersed droplets are easy to coalescence quickly in the delay tube due to relatively large differences in density and high viscosity, thereby affecting the subsequent reaction [10, 25]. Therefore, maintaining a good dispersion state until the

The quenched sample in the sampling bottle is a mixture of dilute acid and organics. Considering that the solubility of 1, 2 and 3 in water is extremely low, the sample was diluted to neutral, and then the organics were dissolved and extracted by chlorobenzene with approximately 100% recovery of organic materials. The organic mixture with chlorobenzene was taken as the GC sample for analysis. The GC sample (0.5 μL) was injected in the GC-2014 instrument (Shimadzu) equipped with a DB-FFAP column (length, 30 m; ID, 0.320 mm; film thickness, 0.25 μm). The oven temperature was maintained at 140 °C for 5 min, then increased to 240 °C by 15 °C/min, and then held for 5 min. The flow rate of the nitrogen as the carrier gas was 1.0 mL/min with a split ratio of 30:1; the injector and FID detector temperatures were set to 280 °C and 300 °C, respectively. The contents of 1, 2 and 3 were determined by using the area normalization method.

To reveal the kinetics characterization of the nitration reaction, the reaction was firstly explored under the isothermal platform as shown in Fig. 1a, which is a simple type of microreactor combining a micromixer and a thin tube providing 160 s of residence time. The effect of reaction temperature was depicted in Fig. 2a. As the reaction temperature rose from 10

14. Movsisyan M, Delbeke EIP, Berton JKET, Battilocchio C, Ley SV, Stevens CV (2016) Taming hazardous chemistry by continuous flow technology. Chem. Soc. Rev. 45(18):4892–4928. https://doi. org/10.1039/c5cs00902b

Abstract The matching of the micro-dispersion method and the reaction kinetics is of the utmost importance for the fast and strongly exothermic nitration reaction. Taken as an example to discuss this issue, a synthesis of 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene via the nitration of o-dichlorobenzene with mixed acid of nitric acid and sulfuric acid was conducted in continuous-flow reactors in this work. Through combining the adiabatic reaction environment, the use of a micropacked-bed reactor, and introducing partial product circulation, it successfully achieved the matching of the micro-dispersion state and the reaction kinetic characteristics. The good two-phase dispersion state can be maintained throughout the micropacked-bed reactor and the reaction can be completed within 5 s with above 89% selectivity under adiabatic condition. Furthermore, the reaction activation energy was conveniently obtained by processing the temperature distribution data, providing a fundamental to realize a reliable design of the nitration reaction process with high efficiency and inherent safety.

to 60 °C, the conversion increased from 57.13% to 99.57%, and the selectivity decreased from 91.34% to 86.60%. Higher reaction temperature corresponded to lower selectivity, al- though the declination was not remarkable. The effect of the nitration ratio, the molar ratio of nitric acid to 1, was examined and the results were shown in Fig. 2b. More nitric acid usage brought a more complete reaction. Nevertheless, the amount of nitric acid had little effect on the selectivity which was maintained at about 89.2%. It im- plied that the temperature control was effective since the re- action rate was relatively slow. However, for this liquid-liquid two-phase reaction, the micromixer was only used to provide the initial dispersion, and the phase separation was prone to occur in the empty delay tube, which may seriously reduce the reaction efficiency and controllability. And if the nitration reaction rate is accel- erated through keeping microdispersion state, it may be diffi- cult to maintain an ideal isothermal condition. To avoid a reaction process being out of control, we put forward the strat- egy combining the adiabatic nitration and the employ of a micropacked-bed reactor in the following. The reaction platform of the adiabatic nitration was illus- trated in Fig. 1b. By the multi-point temperature measure- ment, the temperature distribution along the reaction tubes can be obtained, and Fig. 3 shows the temperature distribu- tions under different feed compositions. Data processing re- sults of adiabatic nitration were listed in Table 1. It can be found directly from the profiles of temperature (Fig. 3) that the addition of products can effectively reduce the reaction temperature rise. In detail, when the raw material was 100% 1, the temperature rise of the reaction was as high as 200 °C; when the proportion of 1 in the organic feed was 25%, the temperature rise was only about 40 °C. For all the experiments shown in Fig. 3, the poly-nitration by-products and the raw material in the outlet were always at trace amounts from the GC determination. So, the reaction heat may be mainly attrib- uted to mono-nitration reactions, the reaction heat of which

environment, as shown in Fig. 1b. The verification of the adiabatic performance of this equipment was detailed in Supplementary Information. The reaction temperature was monitored and recorded by a multi-channel temperature re- corder (± 0.1 °C; BCL2016P; Dongguan Bufan Electronic Co. Ltd.). Temperature sensors were evenly spaced along the reaction tube to acquire the temperature of the tube surface.

Thus, the kinetic parameters can be obtained by linear fitting. Figure 5a shows the experimental results and the polyno- mial fitting curve at a preheating temperature of 25 °C. Further derivation can calculate the term of dT dt. Next, by linearly fitting

State Key Laboratory of Chemical Engineering, Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China

assumption that the two-phase flow state did not change much throughout the micropacked-bed reactor. Thus, the reaction activation energy could be rapidly obtained by fitting, and the influence of the initial temperature on the reaction kinetics could be predicted as a basis of designing an adiabatic reaction process and reactor. In detail, according to the kinetic models of similar aromatics nitration reactions reported in the literatures [4, 18, 22, 30], we assumed that nitration is a second- order reaction which is the first order with respect to both aromatic and nitric acid. Thus, the reaction rate can be expressed as follows:

