continuous phase. The diameter of the membrane pore was 1 μm, and the dimension of the microchannel was 10 mm (length) × 2 mm (wide) × 0.33 mm (height).

Over the last two decades, microreaction technology has been rapidly developed and attracted a lot of attentions. It has been utilized in various industrial reactions to improve the conversion and process safety because of its inherent advantages of large specific interfacial area and short molecular diffusion distance.13–20 Among them, the applications of microreaction technology in the diazotization reaction are widely discussed.5–8,21,22

3.1.1 Effects of the volume flow rate of the reactants on the yield of the diazotization reaction. In this section, the effects of different volume flow rates of the reactants on the yield of the diazotization reaction were studied in detail. The volume flow rates of solution A (NaNO2) and solution B (red base KD + HCl) were varied from 15 to 25 mL min−1. As demonstrated in Fig. 6, despite the yield of the diazotization

Reaction time 21.2 s Hours Reaction temperature 20–25 °C 0–5 °C Yield ≥99% Not provided

magnetic stirring controller was used to control the speed of the magnetic stirrer in order to ensure the uniform distribution of the suspensions. The schematic diagram and photo of the membrane dispersion microreactor are shown in Fig. 4, and it is also fabricated from stainless steel material. Solution A was dispersed by the membrane as a dispersed phase and solution B flowed continuously in the microchannel as a

In summary, a microreaction system for the continuous-flow diazotization reaction of red base KD was developed in this work. After investigating the effect of reaction temperature, reactant volume flow, red base KD concentration and reaction time on the yield of the diazotization reaction, the optimal reaction conditions were obtained: reaction temperature (T) =

As shown in Fig. 2, solution A (NaNO2) was conveyed into capillaries (PTFE, 2.0 mm inner diameter, 3.0 mm outer diameter) by constant-flow pumps (pump01, Beijing Satellite Manufacturing Co., Ltd.). Since solution B was a suspension, it was not suitable for the transportation by a constant-flow pump. In this system, solution B was firstly conveyed into a high-pressure piston kettle with stirring via a peristaltic pump (pump 03, Beijing Satellite Manufacturing Co., Ltd). Then, the constant-flow pump (pump 02, Beijing Satellite Manufacturing Co., Ltd.) was used to convey water to the top of the high-pressure piston kettle. The water squeezed the piston and pressed out solution B into the microreaction system to react with solution A. A delay loop tube (PTFE, 2.0 mm inner diameter, 3.0 mm outer diameter) was connected to the outlet of the membrane dispersion microreactor. The diazotization reaction of red base KD occurred inside the microreactor and the delay loop tube. Both the microreactor and delay loop tube were submerged in a water bath to control the reaction temperature. The reaction time was controlled by changing the length of the delay loop tube. The mixture solution from the outlet was directly added dropwise to the excess coupling component (solution C, 10 mL) that was stored in centrifuge tubes to quench the diazotization reaction. Then, as illustrated in Fig. 2, azo dyes were obtained through the diazo-coupling reaction.8,21 The concentration of the generated azo dye was quantified by UV- visible spectroscopy. Based on the quantitative relationship between the concentration of the diazonium salts and the azo dyes, the yield of the diazotization reaction could be obtained. In order to ensure the complete reaction between the diazonium salts and the coupling components to form azo dyes, the mixture solutions after the azo-coupling reaction were analyzed via the filter paper percolation ring test. This method was used for the rapid detection of diazonium salts, and their detection process was reported in the literature.22

reaction increasing along with the increase in the volume flow rates, the increase is found to be rather insignificant. When both the volume flow rates of solution A and solution B surpass 25 mL min−1, the yield reaches its plateau. The mixing effects can be improved by increasing the volume flow rates, which in turn increases the rate of the diazotization reaction. Unfortunately, the results show that the mixing effect is not the main factor affecting the reaction process. 3.1.2 Effects of different reaction temperatures on the yield of the diazotization reaction. The reaction temperature was also considered, and it was varied from 15 to 35 °C to study the effects on the yield of diazotization reactions. Fig. 7 shows that the yield of the diazotization reaction is significantly affected by the reaction temperature. When the temperature is increased from 15 to 25 °C, the yield greatly

k′: solid–liquid diffusion rate constant; α: the conversion of solid A; t: reaction time. Furthermore, for the diazotization reaction process, we could obtain the chemical reaction rate equation from the literature:27

increases. When the reaction temperature is set at 25 °C, the yield reaches its peak. After the temperature is increased to 30 °C, the yield remains stable, or even slightly decreases. When the reaction temperature reaches 35 °C, the yield starts to showcase a downward trend. In fact, the increase in the reaction temperature promotes the dissolution of hydrochloride crystals23,24 and accelerates the rate of the diazotization reaction. However, when the reaction temperature exceeds 30 °C, the yield of the diazotization reaction decreases due to the thermal instability of diazonium salts. Therefore, for the continuous-flow diazotization synthesis process, the optimal reaction temperature is 25 °C. 3.1.3 Effects of different concentrations of red base KD and reaction time on the yield of the diazotization reaction. Fig. 8 shows that the yield of the diazotization reaction increases with the reaction time increasing at different concentrations of red base KD (0.09–0.15 mol L−1) and it also shows that at the same reaction time, the higher the concentration of red base KD, the lower the diazotization reaction yield. According to the kinetic equation of the diazotization reaction, the reaction rate should be proportional to the concentration of each reactant at the same temperature. The above results contradict with the theoretical model described by the kinetic equation. This means that the solid–liquid mass transfer process significantly affects the diazotization reaction.

In order to emphasize the advantages of the continuous-flow process, the comparison of two different operation processes was summarized. As shown in Table 2, the reaction time was greatly shortened by increasing the reaction temperature and using the superior mass and heat transfer characteristics of the continuous-flow system. The continuous-flow system could significantly reduce the energy consumption while enhancing the efficiency of production of the diazotization process. In addition, the realization of the diazotization reaction in the continuous-flow system as described in this work is readily adapted for other analogous reactions.

25 °C and reactant volume flow = 20 mL min−1. According to the solid–liquid reaction model, we found that agglomeration of the hydrochloride crystals significantly affected the diazotization reaction in an adverse manner due to the solid– liquid mass transfer process. Then we explored the agglomeration phenomenon of the red base KD hydrochloride suspensions under different conditions and found that the agglomeration of suspensions could be prevented by reducing the supersaturation of red base KD hydrochloride in the hydrochloric acid solution. Finally, the yield of the diazotization reaction using the suspensions prepared by the new method was increased compared to the scenario using the original suspensions. A good yield of diazonium salt (99.91% and 99.58%) was achieved rapidly in only 21.2 s when the concentrations of red base KD were 0.12 mol L−1 and 0.15 mol L−1, respectively. Importantly, the diazotization reaction of the suspensions in the microreaction system was deeply studied. Compared to the conventional batch reactors, the continuous- flow microreaction system possesses numerous advantages including continuous operation, enhanced mixing, high safety performance and easy scale up. Consequently, the microreaction system developed in this work will be significant for the industrial production of diazonium salt intermediates as well as downstream fine chemical products.

reaction of red base KD hydrochloride in the form of a suspension solution. By investigating the effects of reaction temperature, reactant volume flow, red base KD concentration and reaction time on the

suspensions. Here, a high-pressure piston kettle was used to convey the suspensions to the microreaction system, and a membrane dispersion microreactor was used to enhance the reactant mixing. Firstly, the effects of reaction temperature, reactant volume flow, suspension concentration and reaction time on the diazotization reaction were investigated. Then, we explored the influence of the agglomeration of the suspensions on the diazotization reaction and various factors affecting the agglomeration of the suspensions. A solid–liquid reaction model was also used to describe the diazotization reaction between the red base KD hydrochloride crystal and sodium nitrite solution. Finally, the yields of the diazotization reaction using different hydrochloride suspensions prepared by different methods as reactants were compared and some operating conditions between the continuous-flow process and the traditional batch process were also compared.

k1: chemical reaction rate constant; CA: the concentration of free aromatic amines; CB: the concentration of the nitrous acid solution. On the other hand, the consumption rate of B (−dCB/dt) in the unit volume of solution B according to the diffusion of B to the interface in the liquid film near solid A could be written as:

Stream Micromixing Process, Org. Process Res. Dev., 2019, 23, 2637–2646. 6 F. M. Akwi, C. Bosma and P. Watts, A Facile Optimization of Diazotization and Phase Transfer Catalyzed Azo-Coupling Reactions in Microreactors, J. Flow Chem., 2016, 6, 73–79. 7 R. C. R. Wootton, R. Fortt and A. J. De Mello, On-chip generation and reaction of unstable intermediates Monolithic nanoreactors for diazonium chemistry: Azo dyes, Lab Chip, 2002, 2, 5–7. 8 H. Pennemann, S. Forster, J. Kinkel, V. Hessel, H. Löwe and L. Wu, Improvement of Dye Properties of the Azo Pigment Yellow 12 Using a Micromixer-Based Process, Org. Process Res. Dev., 2005, 9, 188–192. 9 Z. Q. Yu, Y. W. Lv, C. M. Yu and W. K. Su, Continuous flow reactor for Balz-Schiemann reaction: a new procedure for the preparation of aromatic fluorides, Tetrahedron Lett., 2013, 54, 1261–1263. 10 Z. Q. Yu, X. Ye, Q. L. Xu, X. X. Xie, H. Dong and W. K. Su, A Fully Continuous-Flow Process for the Synthesis of p-Cresol: Impurity Analysis and Process Optimization, Org. Process Res. Dev., 2017, 21, 1644–1652. 11 C. A. Shukla, A. A. Kulkarni and V. V. Ranade, Selectivity engineering of the diazotization reaction in a continuous flow reactor, React. Chem. Eng., 2016, 1, 387–396. 12 S. Partington and S. P. Waldram, Runaway reaction during production of an azo dye intermediate, Process Saf. Environ. Prot., 2002, 80, 33–39. 13 J. P. Huang, F. N. Sang, G. S. Luo and J. H. Xu, Continuous synthesis of Gabapentin with a microreaction system, Chem. Eng. Sci., 2017, 173, 507–513. 14 W. Q. Yuan, S. Q. Zhou, Y. Y. Jiang, H. H. Li and H. D. Zheng, Organocatalyzed styrene epoxidation accelerated by continuous-flow reactor, J. Flow Chem., 2020, 10, 227–234. 15 A. A. Kulkarni, Continuous flow nitration in miniaturized devices, Beilstein J. Org. Chem., 2014, 10, 405–424. 16 U. Hirotsugu, T. Yutaka, N. Aiichiro, O. Hideho, N. Toshiki and J. I. Yoshida, Generation and Reactions of o-Bromophenyllithium without Benzyne Formation Using a Microreactor, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2007, 129, 3046–3047. 17 M. Movsisyan, E. I. P. Delbeke, J. K. E. T. Berton, C. Battilocchio, S. V. Leyb and C. V. Stevens, Taming hazardous chemistry by continuous flow technology, Chem. Soc. Rev., 2016, 45, 4892–4928. 18 R. A. Maurya, P. H. Hoang and D. Kim, Efficient and continuous monoacylation with superior selectivity of symmetrical diamines in microreactors, Lab Chip, 2012, 12, 65–68. 19 J. D'Attoma, T. Camara, P. L. Brun, Y. Robin, S. Bostyn, F. Buron and S. Routier, Efficient Transposition of the Sandmeyer Reaction from Batch to Continuous Process, Org. Process Res. Dev., 2017, 21, 44–51. 20 A. Pawlowska-Zygarowicz, R. Kukawka, H. Maciejewski and M. Smiglak, Optimization and intensification of hydrosilylation reactions using a microreactor system, New J. Chem., 2018, 42, 15332–15339. 21 F. J. Wang, J. P. Huang and J. H. Xu, Continuous-flow synthesis of azo dyes in a microreactor system, Chem. Eng. Prog., 2018, 127, 43–49.