bed reactors (TBRs), which exhibit different reaction performance due to the smaller flow channels in μPBRs. The miniaturization in μPBRs enhances mass and heat transfer,38 reduces reaction times,39 and improves control over reaction conditions.40,41 These features lead to higher yields, selectivity, and efficiency compared to conventional systems.42–44

Qmix Total volumetric flow rate of the gas–liquid mixture, mL min−1

Fig. 3 Schematic of the micro-packed-bed reactor.

flowmeter (HORIBA Precision Instruments Beijing Co., Ltd) and a high-pressure syringe pump (Fusion 6000, Chemyx, USA), respectively. After mixing, the two phases flow into the micro-packed- bed reactor which is packed with palladium metal catalyst particles. At the rear end of the μPBR, a gas–liquid separation tank is connected to separate the gas and liquid phases. The upper part of the separation tank serves as the gas pathway, with a back-pressure valve and pressure sensor at the end of the gas line to control the system's working pressure. The lower part of the separation tank serves as the liquid pathway to discharge the hydrogenated liquid, thereby controlling the liquid level in the separation tank. The hydrogenated liquid was collected for subsequent titration analysis. At the end of each experiment, N2 was used to purge the micro-packed bed to ensure consistent initial flow conditions for every experimental point. All experiments were conducted in triplicate, and results are reported as mean ± standard deviation to ensure reproducibility. The experimental setup utilizes a stainless steel μPBR, as shown in Fig. 3. The μPBR has an inner diameter of 4.6 mm and a length of 10 cm, connected to tubes at the front and rear ends, each with an outer diameter of 1.6 mm and an inner diameter of 1.0 mm. Commercially available frit

The establishment of a mass transfer model is crucial for understanding the intrinsic mechanisms within μPBRs and for the effective design of such reactors.38,48 By developing the mass transfer prediction model, we aim to accurately describe the behavior of gas–liquid phases during the hydrogenation reaction. The mass transfer model allows us to predict the reactor's performance under various operating conditions, thereby optimizing the reaction parameters to enhance efficiency and effective anthraquinone retention rate. The mass transfer model development is based on a comprehensive understanding of the hydrogenation process in μPBRs, which is based on the experiment data. We have incorporated dimensionless parameters such as the liquid- phase Reynolds number (ReL), the gas-phase Weber number (WeG), and the Schmidt number (Sc) to effectively characterize the behavior of gas–liquid two-phase flow and mass transfer. The choice of these parameters is grounded in their ability to represent the dynamic interactions within μPBRs. ReL describes the flow inertia force of the liquid phase, WeG indicates the interfacial disturbances between gas and liquid phases, and Sc relates to the diffusion properties of the phases. By fitting the data, a mass transfer prediction model for the micro-packed bed was obtained, as shown in eqn (9). The mass transfer prediction results are illustrated in Fig. 17.

The apparent residence time (t) in the micro-packed-bed reactor is calculated as the ratio of the total volumetric flow rate of the gas–liquid mixture (Qmix) to the reactor's pore volume (VR), as shown in eqn (3):

reported a gas agitation method to enhance gas–liquid mass transfer via gas disturbance. Besides, fluidized beds17 have been used to achieve high reaction rates and efficient catalyst utilization in industry. Despite these advancements, these methods often result in increased risks due to the high excessive use of hydrogen and the addition of active equipment. These challenges necessitate the development of new hydrogenation reactors that combine high catalytic efficiency and selectivity with enhanced safety. Thus, developing new, green, safe, and reliable hydrogenation equipment and reaction system is critical. In the pursuit of higher efficiency, chemical engineering has increasingly embraced micro-scale processes.18–22 Microchemical systems, characterized by microscale effect and high surface-to- volume ratios,23–27 have shown high promise in various reactions, including oxidation,28–30 hydrogenation,31–33 and catalyst screening.34 Among these, micro-packed-bed reactors (μPBRs) with particle diameters less than 500 μm have become essential tools in microchemical engineering for gas–liquid–solid three- phase reactions.24,35,36 Losey et al.37 first introduced μPBRs and reported distinct flow patterns compared to traditional trickle-

where ΔCH2 is the liquid H2 concentration difference between the micro-packed-bed inlet and outlet; the liquid phase concentration can be predicted from the pressure at the front and rear ends of the μPBR through eqn (6). FL is the liquid flow rate in the μPBR. VR is the pore volume in the μPBR.

Micro-packed-bed reactors have been successfully applied in such hydrogenation reaction systems. For instance, Liu et al.45

time and anthraquinone conversion under a molar ratio of anthraquinone to hydrogen of 1 :1 and the liquid flow ranges from 0.6–3.1 mm s−1. As a result of the fixed anthraquinone-to- hydrogen molar ratio, the gas–liquid flow rates exhibit proportional variations in the plots. It is evident that with increasing two-phase flow rates, the apparent residence time decreases, leading to a reduction in conversion rate. However, due to the enhanced gas–liquid mass transfer capability of the micro-packed bed, a 27% anthraquinone conversion rate is achieved with an apparent residence time of only 9 seconds, corresponding to a hydrogen efficiency of 10.13 g L−1. Although the conversion rate decreases with increasing biphasic flow rates, the enhanced disturbance in gas–liquid phases increases the overall volumetric mass transfer coefficient, as shown in Fig. 9(b). This enhancement in mass transfer is due to the reduction in boundary layer thickness around the catalyst

