very slow with a low conversion of 18.5% after 3 h and 38.1% after 5 h. The main reason is the limited gas−liquid mass transfer rate in the batch reactor. In contrast, because of the larger interfacial area and shorter diﬀusion distance in micropacked reactors, a high conversion of 63% can be obtained with only a short residence time of 1.9 min. In addition, the value of conversion per unit volume per unit time of the micropacked-bed reactor is 100 times that of the batch.

Continuous flow processes have many inherent advantages including the eﬀective suppression of side reactions by precise control of reaction conditions, reduced cost of the separation/ purification process, increased production, reduced energy consumption, reduced equipment volume, and excellent safety.11 Among them, the continuous hydrogenation in micropacked-bed reactors (μPBRs) is promising for the challenges of hydrogenation. In μPBRs, the pressurized hydrogen and liquid reactants flow concurrently through packed beds of catalyst particles with diameters usually smaller than 500 μm. Because of the microscale dimension, it has the advantages of good gas−liquid−solid mass transfer, excellent heat transfer and improved safety while maintaining the plug flow characteristics and fixed-bed catalyst immobilization.12

Table 3. Comparison of Performances of Traditional Batch and Micropacked-Bed Reactorsa

Because of the use of pure hydrogen as a reactant, the mass transfer resistance occurring in the gas film side of the gas− liquid interface can be ignored, and the mass transfer resistance on the liquid side at the gas−liquid interface and the mass transfer resistance at the liquid−solid interface should be considered.24 Exploring the eﬀect of diﬀerent liquid superficial velocities (flow rate/cross-sectional area of the packed bed) on the reaction rate at the same residence time can be used to determine whether the external mass transfer limitation can be ignored. In the present study, four μPBRs with the same volume (3.0 mL) and diﬀerent internal diameters (4.35; 4.57; 5.35; and 5.75 mm) were designed for the experiments. These reactors were filled with the same amount of the catalyst. This method can successfully achieve diﬀerent liquid superficial velocities in diﬀerent reactors under the same flow rate and residence time.

ABSTRACT: In recent years, with the advancements in continuous flow technology and the ever-increasing demand for green processes, continuous flow chemistry has become more and more widely adopted in the pharmaceutical industry. In this work, the continuous hydrogenolysis of N-diphenylmethylazetidin-3-ol to 3-azetidinol in micropacked bed reactors was demonstrated. The eﬀects of diﬀerent catalysts, solvent types, and the additives on the reaction in a micropacked-bed reactor were investigated. The results indicate that the reaction rate per reactor volume is increased by 100 times because of the larger interfacial area and shorter diﬀusion distance in micropacked reactors. To further study the long-term stability of the reaction system, the flow system was successfully operated for 240 h by adjusting the reaction temperature and liquid flow rate. The reaction kinetics model for the hydrogenation of N-diphenylmethylazetidin-3-ol in methanol was studied after the internal and external diﬀusion limitations were eliminated. In addition, the type of adsorption of the reactants on the catalyst and the rate-determining step of the reaction were investigated. KEYWORDS: hydrogenation, debenzylation, kinetics, micro-packed bed reactors ■INTRODUCTION

reactor performance [g(raw material) × mL (reactor volume)−1 × min−1]

where, D (cm) and L (cm) are the inner diameter and the length of the packed tubing, respectively; ε is the bed porosity; and h is the liquid holdup representing the fraction of interstitial open space filled by liquid. From this equation, we can find that the residence time is only determined by the liquid holdup, which can be calculated with the equations reported in the literature.16

Continuous Hydrogenolysis of N‑Diphenylmethyl Groups in a Micropacked-Bed Reactor

was connected to a back pressure regulator (Beijing Xiongchuan Technology Co. Ltd.) to control the system pressure. The mixing of the feeding gas and liquid before the entering the packed-bed reactor greatly aﬀects the stability and reproducibility of the system. To minimize the hydrodynamic instabilities, the reactor structure followed the design which was described in the literature16 and more details about the reactor structure can be found in this paper. The packed tube is made of stainless steel with a length of 20 cm, an outer diameter of 6.35 mm (1/4 in.), and an inner diameter of 4.35 mm. The reactant DMAOL was prepared as a specific concentration in the solvent. The particulate catalysts were filled into the reactor through a funnel and the catalyst bed was packed as tight as possible. The micropacked bed packed with a certain mass of the catalyst was prewetted by the solution, and then H2 was transported into the reactor at a specific flow rate (FG). The Back pressure (P) and the liquid flow rate (FL) were then set to the required values while simultaneously raising the system temperature (T). After waiting for the reaction time, which was at least three times of the liquid residence time (τ), the system achieved a steady state and a sample was collected. When the desired samples were acquired, the water bath was turned oﬀand the system pressure was reduced to atmospheric pressure. After the system was depressurized, N2 gas was transported through the micropacked-bed reactor to fully remove the residual gas− liquid mixture and ensure that the catalyst was stored in a nitrogen atmosphere. As hydrogenation in μPBRs involves the gas−liquid−solid process, the residence time of liquid τ representing the reaction time should be carefully calculated. According to the definition of liquid holdup in our previous paper,16 τ is calculated by the following equation

