Introduction Microreactors are being used for several fast and exothermic reactions, and a vast amount of information on the feasibility of many homonegeous and heterogeneous reactions in miniatur- ized devices is reported in the literature.1-4 A few of the important advantages of microreactors are: (i) very high heat transfer area, which helps carry out exothermic reactions, (ii) smaller residence time, which helps carry out fast reactions at true kinetic rates, (iii) better control of the overall reaction rates, which helps achieve the desired selectivity by providing the possibility of introducing the reactant(s) at different spatial locations, (iv) the need for very much smaller amounts of chemicals to obtain the necessary kinetic information, (v) safe operation, (vi) the ability to withstand extreme conditions because of smaller reaction volumes, etc. Nitration of aromatic substrates is one such class of reactions, where the above- mentioned advantages are useful for achieving better yield and selectivity when the reactions are done in microreactors. Since the channel dimensions are small, the diffusion time scales are much smaller than in conventional batch operations. This results in rapid mixing, which subsequently reduces the possibility of byproduct formation in fast reactions, and it also yields higher mass transfer rates in case of two-phase flows. A detailed discussion of the advantages of continuous flow synthesis and a list of different classes of reactions that can be carried out in continuous flow mode can be seen in a recent review by Wiles and Watts.5 In reality, the concept of continuous flow synthesis

Figure 3. Effect of composition of the nitrating mixture (nitric acid to sulfuric acid, mol/mol) at the inlet of continuous flow system on the product composition. All the experiments are performed at 5 °C and with a fixed mole ratio of nitric acid to benzaldehyde (3.5:1). The legends show the residence time maintained in the system in minutes.

Thus, having a suitable micromixer would help to eliminate the residence time tube, thereby opening several options for scaling up the miniaturized system for this reaction. It will also be useful to design an inline separator (L-L extractor) for the separation of the two isomers. Thus, this work demonstrates that the nitration of benzal- dehyde can be carried out in a safe manner in continuous mode using the microreactor system. The mixing is critical, specifi- cally at higher temperatures where the reaction is very fast. The choice of a micromixer affects the performance significantly. While the important issues (viz. inline separation of product isomers, checking the economic feasibility of this continuous

Figure 2. Effect of nitric acid on the benzaldehyde (HNO3: BA) mole ratio at the inlet of the continuous flow system on the product composition. All the experiments are performed at 5 °C. Legends indicate the mole ratio of nitric acid to benzaldehyde.

phase was extracted in diethyl ether and the samples were subjected to analysis. The reaction composition was varied by changing the flow ratio at the inlet and the composition of the nitrating mixture, while the temperature was changed by changing the bulk temperature in the thermostat.

Experimental Section In the batch mode, the nitrating mixture was prepared by stirring concentrated sulfuric acid with nitric acid (70%, sp. gr. 1.42), with sufficient cooling by an ice bath. The reaction was carried out in a glass jacketed reactor (50 mL), and the temperature of the reaction mixture was maintained by circulat- ing water from a thermostat (Julabo, Germany). Benzaldehyde was added with good stirring in 5 min, and stirring was continued for 30 min. Continuous stirring was done vigorously to keep the reactants dispersed. Experiments were carried out in the temperature range of 0-25 °C. Samples of the reaction mixture (from the dispersion of two phases) were withdrawn regularly, and the organic phase was extracted in diethyl ether before it was subjected to analysis. The samples were analyzed using gas chromatography (Agilent 6890) with an HP5 capillary column and an FID detector. The injector temperature was maintained at 280 °C. For the continuous flow experiments, the experimental setup consisted of two syringe pumps (Boading Longer, China) loaded with 20 mL glass syringes connected to SS316 tubes (1/16 in. o.d.) through an in-house developed and fabricated glass-to- metal connector made in PTFE. The two metallic tubes were subsequently connected to a micromixer followed by a residence time tube (1/16 in. o.d., 1.38 mm i.d. and 6 m long) made of Hastelloy (Vindum Engineering, U.S.A.). A heating-chilling thermostat (Julabo, Germany) was also used (see Figure 1). Both the syringes were filled with the nitrating mixture and benzal- dehyde, respectively. The SS316 tubes carrying the reactants, the micromixer as well as the Hastelloy tube, were immersed in the thermostat. It needs to be noted that the flow of nitrating mixture and benzaldehyde is a two-phase flow and in a Hastelloy tube, the nitrating mixture (aqueous phase) is continu- ous, while benzaldehyde is present in the form of discontinuous slugs. Two different types of micromixers were used to bring the reactants in contact with each other. The details are discussed later under the section of Results and Discussions. As mentioned previously, from the samples collected at the outlet, the organic

The nitration of benzaldehyde can be carried out in a safe manner in continuous mode using a microreactor system. Choice of a micromixer was seen to affect the performance of this two-phase reaction significantly. The reaction time could be brought down to 2 min by increasing the reaction temperature and thereby taking advantage of higher heat transfer area. The simple T-micromixer is seen to be inefficient for two-phase reactions. Further scope of process intensification is also discussed.

Continuous Flow Nitration of Benzaldehyde

further experiments were carried out to realize the effect of temperature on the reaction and outlet composition. The experiments were carried out at three different temper- atures, 5, 15, and 25 °C. The observations are shown in Figure 4. As expected, with an increase in the reaction temperature, the time required for completion of the nitration reaction decreased significantly. Although at lower conversions the m:o ratio was relatively lower, it was more important to note that increase in temperature has a positive effect on the amount of ortho isomer formed in the reaction. However, on finding the quantitative relation between the m:o mole ratio and temperature from the three data sets, it was clear that within the boiling point of the aqueous phase, it is difficult to bring this ratio to less than 2.8. This means that, although higher temperature would yield a relatively higher amount of ortho isomer, the formation of the meta isomer is always favored. In order to check the product composition from a batch reaction at identical conditions, a separate experiment was carried out in the glass reactor (batch) at 25 °C. Samples were withdrawn regularly. It was observed that in the batch mode, almost 30 min was needed to complete the reaction and the mole ratio of m:o isomers was seen to increase continuously until the reaction was complete. One of the main reasons is the relatively poor mixing of the two immiscible phases, in addition to inefficient interfacial mass transfer and heat transfer in the batch reactor. The observations from the above experiment indicate that the continuous flow nitration of benzaldehyde can be practically

