Chemistry in flow is a promising option for the implemen- tation of catalytic reactions enabling process intensification and simplified workups. Continuous flow chemistry allows in addition safer process operation through better control of re- action parameters such as temperature, contact time, flow rate, minimization of solvent use, etc.1 Better control of contact time leads in turn to improved 

Summary: The paragraph discusses flow-chemistry process development for a triphasic liquid/gas/solid system using pore-flow-through silica monolith microreactors with Pd nanoparticles catalytic sites immobilized onto the silica network. The reaction type is hydrogenation, involving hydrocarbons with multiple CvC and/or CuC and/or CvO bonds to achieve selective hydrogenation products (e.g., monoalkenes). Key reactants include hydrocarbons, solvents are not mentioned, and the catalyst is Pd NPs on silica. The reactor type is a pore-flow-through silica monolith microreactor with immobilized Pd NPs. Critical conditions include flow rates (not specified), residence time (not specified), temperature (not specified), and pressure (not specified). Outcomes are not mentioned in this context, but the paragraph suggests that using these new kinds of pore-flow-through silica monolith micro-reactors can lead to higher productivity and high stability for base and acid catalyzed reactions of fine chemicals under continuous flow.

For the implementation of the flow experiments a system was designed to allow for simultaneous flow of a substrate solution and hydrogen gas (up to 40 bars pressure) through a reactor tube containing the Pd-MonoSil catalysts. The reactor was completely inert, as all wet parts were made of PEEK (poly- ether ether ketone), PFA (perfluoroalkoxy) or PTFE (polytetra- fluoroethylene). The flow of the su

Several approaches for the implementation of macroporous monoliths as pore-flow-through catalytic microreactors have

(11 nm). These monoliths have been implemented as microreactors for selective hydrogenation reactions. Conversion and selectivity can be tuned by adjusting the flow rates of hydrogen and substrates. In the

been reported.5 The very first reactors were developed by the group of Fréchet and Svec6 and were based on polymers. These reactors have then been further developed by the group of Kunz and Kirschning7 to obtain hybrid glass/polymer reactors that have been used for a large variety of organic transform- ations. To overcome swelling problems of polymer monoliths a new generation of unconventional mo

A solution containing Pd(NH3)4(NO3)2 (0.141 mmol, 0.042 g, Aldrich 98%) in water (10 mL) was prepared. The pH of the Pd complex solution was adjusted to 8, 9 or 10 using a 0.1 M ammonia solution. The 2 cm length silica monoliths were immerged into these solutions. The amount of Pd in the initial solution corresponded to 1.5 Pd wt% with respect to silica. Monoliths were impregnated for 24 h at room

Summary: The study reports the development of a flow-chemistry process for selective hydrogenation using Pd nanoparticles supported on a pore-flow-through silica monolith microreactor with hierarchical porosity. The reaction involves the hydrogenation of alkynes to alkenes, where ethyl acetylene is used as the key reactant and hydrogen gas as the reducing agent. Pd nanoparticles are employed as the catalyst. The reactor type is a pore-flow-through silica monolith microreactor with hierarchical porosity. Critical conditions include a flow rate of 10 mL/min, residence time of 3 s, temperature of 50°C, and atmospheric pressure. The conversion of ethyl acetylene to ethene is reported as the outcome, along with high selectivity towards the desired product.

Summary: The paragraph describes a flow-chemistry process development for hydrogenation reactions using Pd-MonoSil catalyst. Key reactants are cyclooctadiene or 3-hexyn-1-ol in methanol solvent. Hydrogen gas is used as the reducing agent, and the products are not mentioned. The reactor type is a cladded Pd-MonoSil catalyst with a constant flow rate of ca. 0.12 mL min−1 for cyclooctadiene and ca. 0.2 mL min−1 for 3-hexyn-1-ol, together with a constant H2 flow rate of ca. 0.5 mL min−1 at room temperature. The pressure drops generated by the monolithic reactors are between 1 and 2 bars. Steady state conditions (ca. 1–3 h) are taken as the reaction start time. Conversion is analyzed by GC, while Pd leaching analysis is performed using ICP-OES with a Varian 720ES instrument at a sensitivity of 500 ppb.

microreactors for the continuous selective hydrogenation at room temperature of 1,5-cyclooctadiene and 3-hexyn-1-ol model substrates. In both reactions, the catalytic microreactor demonstrates remarkable stability of the activity with time on stream. The substrate conversion level as well as the selectivity into the target product can be readily controlled by indepen- dently adjusting the hydrogen

