Chemistry in flow is a promising option for the implemen- tation of catalytic reactions enabling process intensification and simplified workups. Continuous flow chemistry allows in addition safer process operation through better control of re- action parameters such as temperature, contact time, flow rate, minimization of solvent use, etc.1 Better control of contact time leads in turn to improved product selectivity and yield in comparison to batch reactors and represents a valuable tool for process intensification.1 Recently, eﬀorts have been made for the design of eﬃcient microreactors comprising either microstructured multichannel reactors2 or macroporous monoliths.3 Macroporous monoliths present the advantages of an interconnected and isotropic network of macropores allow- ing high surface-to-volume ratios and eﬃcient mixing of fluids.4

mesoporous silica because the interconnected network of macropores allows for rapid diﬀusion resulting in improved reaction kinetics. They have also shown that too small meso- pores (<10 nm) restrict mass diﬀusion. The productivity in fine chemicals transformations was increased by using higher flow rates until the point where contact times were not enough to ensure high conversion.10,11 Previously we have shown that these new kinds of pore-flow-through silica monolith micro- reactors induced high productivity and high stability for base and acid catalyzed reactions of fine chemicals in the liquid phase under continuous flow.3b,8,10 The superiority of this new kind of monolith, used as a single piece microreactor, was demonstrated by the higher conversions and productivities achieved compared to packed-bed or batch reactors filled with crushed monolith.8,10 This result is most probably due to the more uniform contact time arising for the homogeneity of the macroporous network in the single piece monolith in compa- rison to the dual macroporosity (interand intra-particle) encountered in a packed-bed system. In the present study, we analyze the eﬀectiveness of these promising pore-flow-through silica monolith microreactors in a triphasic liquid/gas/solid system for selective hydrogenation reactions under conditions allowing a fine control of gas and liquid contact times on Pd nanoparticles (NPs) catalytic sites immobilized onto the silica network. Diﬀerent groups have reported on the catalytic behavior of Pd NPs supported on polymeric matrixes, dendrimers, zeolites and dispersed silica in selective hydrogenation.15 Selective hydrogenation of hydrocarbons with multiple CvC and/or CuC and/or CvO bonds to achieve selective hydrogenation products (e.g. monoalkenes) is a highly desired and challen- ging process in the pharmaceutical, agrochemical and petro- chemical industry sectors.16 Under comparable conditions, hydrogenation rates roughly followed the order CuC > CvC > CvO. This behavior can be justified in terms of greater aﬃnity of Pd for CvC than for CvO bonds in aliphatic compounds.17

For the implementation of the flow experiments a system was designed to allow for simultaneous flow of a substrate solution and hydrogen gas (up to 40 bars pressure) through a reactor tube containing the Pd-MonoSil catalysts. The reactor was completely inert, as all wet parts were made of PEEK (poly- ether ether ketone), PFA (perfluoroalkoxy) or PTFE (polytetra- fluoroethylene). The flow of the substrate solution was regulated by an Alltech® model 426 HPLC pump in PEEK. A constant flow of hydrogen gas was adjusted by a flow controller BRONKHORST HI-TEC model F200CV-002-RGD-11-V-MFC. The hydrogen pressure in the reactor was monitored by a BRONKHORST HI-TEC P502C-AGD-11-V-6K0R-EPC meter. The concurrent flows of gas and liquid were driven through a T-shaped PEEK mixer to ensure eﬃcient gas dispersion. The mixed hydrogen–substrate solution stream was introduced into the reactor through a 6-port Rheodyne mod. 9060 switching valve in PEEK. The Pd-MonoSils cladded into a heat-shrinkable PTFE tube together with two glass tubes (4 mm inner diameter) at each end were connected in a top-down arrangement to the system by PFA Swagelok fittings and Chemraz® O-rings (ESI Scheme S1‡). At the outlet of the reactor, the product solution

Several approaches for the implementation of macroporous monoliths as pore-flow-through catalytic microreactors have

(11 nm). These monoliths have been implemented as microreactors for selective hydrogenation reactions. Conversion and selectivity can be tuned by adjusting the flow rates of hydrogen and substrates. In the

been reported.5 The very first reactors were developed by the group of Fréchet and Svec6 and were based on polymers. These reactors have then been further developed by the group of Kunz and Kirschning7 to obtain hybrid glass/polymer reactors that have been used for a large variety of organic transform- ations. To overcome swelling problems of polymer monoliths a new generation of unconventional monolithic inorganic (silica) microreactors for catalysis has appeared,8 which are formed by a combination of spinodal decomposition and a sol–gel process featuring an interconnected and homogeneous system of macropores (2–4 microns) and comprising within their skeleton homogeneously distributed mesopores adjusta- ble in size (3–40 nm).9 This novel family of structured micro- reactors features high chemical and physical stability with a high condensation state of silica (76% of Q4 and 24% of Q3)9c

A solution containing Pd(NH3)4(NO3)2 (0.141 mmol, 0.042 g, Aldrich 98%) in water (10 mL) was prepared. The pH of the Pd complex solution was adjusted to 8, 9 or 10 using a 0.1 M ammonia solution. The 2 cm length silica monoliths were immerged into these solutions. The amount of Pd in the initial solution corresponded to 1.5 Pd wt% with respect to silica. Monoliths were impregnated for 24 h at room tempera- ture under gentle agitation at 100 rpm. The monoliths were then subsequently washed with distillated water (1 L), dried at 40 °C for 72 h and calcined at 550 °C for 8 h to form Pd oxide nanoparticles inside the silica monoliths. The reduction of PdO NPs was then performed with diluted hydrogen (3 vol% H2 in He) at 280 °C for 2 h. The resulting monoliths are here- after named Pd-MonoSils. For use as flow microreactors, the monoliths ended with two glass tubes and were cladded with a

Selective hydrogenation over Pd nanoparticles supported on a pore-flow-through silica monolith microreactor with hierarchical porosity†‡

was collected for GC analysis and the excess amount of the hydrogen gas released at atmospheric pressure. Commercially available H2 (99.995%) was used as received. In a typical experiment, the Pd-MonoSil catalyst (0.154 g, 1.3 Pd wt%) was first washed under flow with deaerated methanol at a flow rate of 0.15 mL min−1 at room temperature. No leaching of Pd was observed. A deaerated solution of the substrate (cyclooctadiene or 3-hexyn-1-ol) in methanol (0.1 and 0.2 M, respectively) was then allowed to flow through the cladded Pd-MonoSil catalyst (0.154 g, 1.3 Pd wt%) at a constant flow rate of ca. 0.12 mL min−1, together with a constant H2 flow rate of ca. 0.5 mL min−1 at room temperature, while the hydrogen gas was released at atmospheric pressure at the outlet of the reactor. For cyclooctadiene the substrate solution flow rate was varied between 0.05 and 0.25 mL min−1 and the H2 flow rate between 0.3 and 0.55 mL min−1. This resulted in a H2 pressure at the reactor inlet between 2.2 and 2.4 bars corresponding to a molar ratio 2.2 < H2/cyclooctadiene < 4.5. For 3-hexyn-1-ol the substrate solution flow rate was varied between 0.05 and 0.25 mL min−1 and the H2 flow rate between 0.2 and 1.3 mL min−1. This resulted in a H2 pressure at the reactor inlet between 2.4 and 3.1 bar corresponding to a molar ratio 0.6 < H2/hexynol < 2.5. Therefore, the pressure drops gen- erated by monolithic reactors were between 1 and 2 bars. The attainment of the steady state conditions (ca. 1–3 h) was taken as the reaction start time. The product solution was period- ically analyzed for conversion by GC, while 7.2 mL h−1 aliquots were continuously sampled for subsequent Pd leaching analysis. The content of palladium leached in the catalysis solutions was determined by Inductively Coupled Plasma Atomic Emis- sion Spectroscopy (ICP-OES) with a Varian 720ES instrument at a sensitivity of 500 ppb. Each sample (7.2 mL) was treated in a microwave-heated digestion bomb (Milestone, MLS-200) with concentrated HNO3 (1.5 mL), 98% H2SO4 (2 mL), 37% HCl (0.5 mL) and a pellet of a digestion aid reagent (0.5 g, 0.1% Se in K2SO4). The solutions were analyzed directly after 1 : 5 dilution in 0.1 M hydrochloric acid.

microreactors for the continuous selective hydrogenation at room temperature of 1,5-cyclooctadiene and 3-hexyn-1-ol model substrates. In both reactions, the catalytic microreactor demonstrates remarkable stability of the activity with time on stream. The substrate conversion level as well as the selectivity into the target product can be readily controlled by indepen- dently adjusting the hydrogen and substrate flow rates. In the selective hydrogenation of 1,5-cyclooctadiene, a conversion of 95% and a selectivity of 90% in monohydrogenated product, constant over a period of 70 h, have been reached. These figures correspond to a productivity of 4.2 mmol s−1 g−1 MonoSil (or 0.32 mol s−1 g−1 Pd) and compare well with benchmark membrane based catalysts. In the stereoselective hydrogen- ation of 3-hexyn-1-ol a constant conversion of 85% and a selec- tivity of 80% into the cis isomer have been obtained over a period of 7 h, corresponding to a 10 times higher productivity in comparison to batch using the Lindlar catalyst. The versati- lity and flexibility of the monolithic microreactor in triphasic systems have been demonstrated and open new perspectives for the implementation of fine chemicals synthesis in continu- ous flow mode.

