reaction temperature of 70 ℃, pressure of 2.0 MPa and liquid flow rate of 0.7 mL/min.

In the continuous hydrogenation process, hydrogen flow rate would influence the gas–liquid mass transfer process by increasing the turbulence in the reactor which greatly influences the conversion and selectivity of reaction [37]. In order to investigate the influence of gas flow rate on reaction results, the selectivity and conversion of the reaction under different gas flow rates were studied with Pt/C catalyst and the results were shown in Fig. 2. It is found that the mass fraction of 3,4-DCAN under different gas flow rates were all beyond 99% except for the experiments under gas flow rate with 22.5 sccm. The CAN and CNB at hydrogen flow rate with 22.5 sccm were slightly higher than other results. The results could be attributed to the longer residence time of liquids in the reactor due to the small gas flow rate. Therefore, gas flow rate of 25 sccm was selected for the following experiments.

Reaction conditions: system pressure: 2.0 MPa, mass concentration of reactant: 10 wt%, liquid flow rate: 0.7 mL/min, gas flow rate: 25 sccm, solvent: methanol, catalyst loading: 2.53 g.

In this part, selective hydrogenation of 3,4-DCNB in a batch reactor (200 mL) was conducted and the reaction results were compared between batch and continuous-flow mode. In the batch experiment, the solution (100 mL) and catalysts were added into the reactor and N2 was transferred into the batch reactor three times to fully remove the air. Then H2 was filled into the reactor and released to atmospheric pres- sure for three times. Finally, the reaction was conducted and the samples were collected. For the continuous flow experi- ment, the reaction was conducted under the same conditions and the liquid flow rate was set to 0.7 mL/min to ensure the same production capacity. Based on the data shown in Table 2, the selectivity of 3,4- DCAN was 61.8% and more than 30% CAN was detected by GC in batch reactor. Moreover, the reaction was com- pleted in two hours. In contrast, due to the larger interfacial

Reaction conditions: residence time: 2.2 min, solvent: methanol, H2 flow rate: 15 sccm

The liquid flow rate would greatly influence the residence time by changing the liquid holdup in the micropacked bed reactor [40]. And the variation of residence time has significant influence on the dechlorination process and the generation of AZO. For the hydrogenation under long resi- dence time, dechlorination would inevitably appear since target product 3,4-DCAN remaining on the Pt/C catalyst was dehalogenated by the hydrogen absorbed on the catalyst surface. While for the reaction under short residence time, it wasn't sufficient for the 3,4-DCNB and AZO to contact with hydrogen, therefore, they cannot be converted to the desired product. Figure 5 has shown that when the liquid flow rate varied from 0.4 mL/min to 0.7 mL/min which corresponds to the residence time from 2.2 min to 3.8 min, the yields of 3,4- DCAN were all beyond 99.5% and no AZO was observed in GC. As the liquid flow rate was increased, AZO was generated owing to the shorter residence time to be further reduced to 3,4-DCAN and the yield of 3,4-DCAN declined to 99.3%. In Fig. 6, it was found that maximal yield of 3,4- DCAN appeared under higher liquid flow rate as the temper- ature increased, indicating that side reaction (dehalogenation and condensation) was accelerated at higher temperature, hence decreasing residence time would diminish the adverse impact. The highest yield of 99.7% was achieved with the

observed in 160 ℃. Based on the optimized reaction tem- perature, the full conversion and maximum yield of 99.7% were obtained and temperatures below 90 ℃ were suggested for the application of H-flow system considering the severe corrosion led by HCl.

The H-Flow system based on micropacked bed reactor was successfully applied for the selective hydrogenation of 3,4- DCNB. The reaction performance under different pressures, liquid flow rates, temperatures and catalysts were optimized and maximal yield of 99.8% was obtained using Pt/C cata- lyst under the temperature of 60 ℃, the mass concentra- tion of 10 wt%, the pressure of 2.0 MPa and the liquid flow rate of 0.7 mL/min. Additionally, various relevant chlorin- ated nitro compounds were also applied for the continuous hydrogenation in micropacked reactor and all yields were at the level of 99.5% with full conversion. The H-flow sys- tem based on micropacked bed reactor exhibited remarkable selectivity and efficiency for the reduction of halogenated

Reaction conditions: reactant mass concentration: 10 wt%, liquid flow rate: 0.7 mL/min, gas pressure: 2 MPa. Stirring speed: 200 r/min, sol- vent: methanol, catalyst: Pt/C, catalyst loading: 2.54 g.

Ltd.) with maximum flow rate of 100 sccm. Liquid was pre- heated to reaction temperature and then mixed with gas prior to entering the micropacked bed reactor (Length: 24.0 cm, innner diameter: 5.5 mm, outer diameter: 13.9 mm) which was wrapped by the heating jacket vertically. A condenser was placed on the downstream of reactor to remove exces- sive heat from the product and hydrogen. Following that the mixture entered the gas–liquid separator and product was collected in the collection vial. A back pressure regulator was connected with the top of separator to control system pressure while a liquid level control valve was installed at the bottom of separator to avoid undesired overflow to gas outlet. System parameters (pressure, temperature and flow rate) were all set to required values using online control modules while transient reaction conditions were shown on the screen by the online monitor modules.

The reactant (3,4-DCNB) was prepared as a specific concentration with the solvent. The micropacked bed reactor was prewetted by pure solvent, then followed by N2 to replace gas in the system. After that H2 was intro- duced into H-Flow and the system pressure was gradually increased to the required value, ensuring the pressure drop between mass flow controller and back pressure regula- tor less than 0.5 MPa to protect the mass flow control- ler. Meanwhile, the system temperature was increased to the required value. When all the desired parameters were achieved, the solution of reactant was delivered in the sys- tem and the system achieved a steady state after at least three times of liquid residence time, then the sample was collected. When all the experiments had been completed, the heating jacket was turned off and system pressure was reduced to atmospheric pressure by releasing the back- pressure regulator. After the system was depressurized, a mixture of N2 and methanol was transported through the micropacked bed reactor to fully remove residual gas–liquid mixture and catalyst was stored in a nitrogen atmosphere.

A schematic overview of the continuous flow platform (H-Flow 10, Ou Shi Sheng (Beijing) Technology Co. Ltd.) was shown in Fig. 1. Liquid flow was supplied by a plunger pump with maximum flow rate of 9.99 mL/min and maxi- mum pressure of 10 MPa. H2 gas from the hydrogen gen- erator (Ou Shi Sheng (Beijing) Technology Co. Ltd.) and N2 gas from the regulated cylinder were fed through two mass flow controllers (Beijing Sevenstar Elevtronics Co.

Hydrogen pressure would affect the solubility of hydrogen in the solution and gas–liquid mass transfer rate [38]. Inap- propriate pressure may accelerate the accumulation of AZO or promote the dechlorination process. Here, the effect of hydrogen pressure on the product composition was studied. Figure 3 showed that when the reaction pressure was increased from 1.0 MPa to 3.0 MPa, the selectivity of 3,4- DCAN gradually increased to a high value of 99.5% with pressures larger than 2 MPa, and the azoxy compounds declined to less than 0.1%, which was attributed to the

reactor, selectivity was greatly improved, and less than 2% dehalogenation product was detected owing to the pre- cise control of residence time. Todor et al. [22] proposed a continuous flow system with new Co3O4/NGr@CNT as catalysts in a micropacked bed reactor for the reduction of 4-iodonitrobenzene. The results showed that main prod- uct (4-iodoaniline) was obtained without any detectable dehalogenation at full conversion, which proved the effec- tiveness of continuous-flow micropacked bed system on the highly selective hydrogenation of halogenated aromatics. Feng et al. [23] adopted continuous-flow technology for the hydrogenation of crizotinib intermediate using Raney Ni as the catalyst. Consequently, side reactions such as dehalo- genation and debenzylation were inhibited eminently and desired product was obtained with high selectivity (99.9%) and high conversion (99.5%). Hannes et al. [24] selected the hydrogenation of 1-iodo-4-nitrobenzene as the model reac- tion and evaluated reaction performance under batch and continuous flow modes. Experimental results indicated that the yield of 4-iodoaniline in continuous flow system were 10% higher than that in batch reactor, verifying the supe- riority of continuous flow for the selective hydrogenation of halogenated aromatics. Therefore, the continuous flow system based on micropacked bed reactor would offer excel- lent mixing efficiency and great control over residence time and temperature, improving reaction selectivity remarkably and minimizing excessive hydrogenation which results in undesired dehalogenation. The hydrogenation of 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene (3,4- DCNB) was selected as the model reaction and the product 3,4-dichloroaniline (3,4-DCAN) is a significant intermedi- ate in dye and pigment industry [25, 26]. In general, the

The sample was analyzed offline utilizing gas chroma- tography (shimazhu, GC-2014) with an FID detector and a Shimazhu RTX-5 capillary column (length: 30 m, diameter: 0.32 mm, film thickness: 0.25 μm). The sam- ples were diluted and measured under the following con- ditions: the injection temperature, 280 ℃; the column temperature, 50–110 ℃, 20 ℃/min, 110–150 ℃, 10 ℃/ min, 150 ℃, 4 min, 150–250 ℃, 20 ℃/min; the detector temperature, 280 ℃. The sample volume for all analysis was 1 μL. Based on these analytical conditions, the reten- tion times of the reactants and products were as follow- ing: CAN (m-chloroaniline and p-chloroaniline), 5.8 min; CNB (m-chloronitrobenzene and p-chloronitrobenzene), 7.4 min; 3,4-DCAN, 8.5 min; 3,4-DCNB, 7.8 min; AZO, 13.3 min. For the most experiments, no 3,4-DCNB was detected by gas chromatography, hence the conversion was treated as 100%. Therefore, the selectivity of product could be calculated as follows:

area and shorter diffusion distance in the micropacked bed reactor, hydrogenation in the micropacked bed reactor was finished within two minutes. In addition, side reaction such as dechlorination could be perfectly inhibited by the precise control of residence time while in the batch reactor, dichlo- roaniline would be further hydrogenated to m-chloroaniline and p-chloroaniline owing to back mixing resulting in huge challenge for the subsequent separation process.

While 3,4-DCNB represented a suitable model compound for the screening different catalysts and optimizing the reaction conditions, an efficient H-flow system based on micropacked bed reactor was successfully applied on the selective hydrogenation process and the system was also tested for the hydrogenation of relevant chlorinated nitro compounds which were significant intermediates in fine chemical industry [32, 41, 42]. Table 3 presented that the results of other chlorinated nitro compounds reduced in the H-flow system. In compari- son with the reduction of 3,4-DCNB, lower pressure was demanded by the 2,4-dichloronitrobenzene and 2,5-dichlo- ronitrobenzene, otherwise, the content of CAN would exceed 2%. This difference may be attributed to the mutual position of Cl atom and nitro group in the benzene ring. While for 4-chloro-2-nitroanisole and 5-chloro-2-nitroanisole, these two substances were more prone to dechlorinate, hence the reaction temperature was adjusted to 50 ℃ except for the adjustment of pressure. And due to the low solubility of 4-chloro-2-nitroanisole in methanol, the concentration was also altered to 5 wt%. The yields of corresponding aniline were all at the level of 99.5%, verifying the efficiency and applicability of H-flow system for the selective hydrogenation of chroniated nitro compounds.

transformation of azoxy compound to 3,4-DCAN. Sur- prisingly, dehalogenation was also decreased as pressure increased. The reason may be that higher hydrogen pres- sure increases the amount of active hydrogen on the cata- lyst which accelerates the reduction of nitro group while the reaction rate of dehalogenation is irrelevant with the hydrogen pressure as pressure higher than 1.0 MPa [30, 39]. The yields of the hydrogenation at different pressures were shown in Fig. 3. The maximal yield of 3,4-DCAN (99.8%) was obtained with the pressure of 2.0 MPa. Hence, the pres- sure of 2.0 MPa was selected as the optimized condition for the following experiments.

Abstract The selective hydrogenation of halogenated nitroaromatic compounds is of great importance in the fine chemical industry. However, the hydrogenation reactions in commonly utilized batch reactors suffer from the undesired dehalogenation, result- ing in higher requirement for subsequent separation processes and severe corrosion to industrial fatalities. In this work, a H-flow system with the micropacked bed reactor was developed for the selective hydrogenation of halogenated nitroaromatic compounds and the reduction of 3,4-dichloronitrobenzene was selected as the model reaction. With the optimal hydrogena- tion conditions, the yield of 3,4-dichloroaniline was obtained as high as 99.8% under mild conditions. With this strategy this flow system was successfully employed to the reduction of other chlorinated nitroaromatics also demonstrating low dehalogenation. The H-flow system enables negligible dehalogenation and remarkable yield of target product with higher efficiency and lower energy cost compared with the batch reactor.

nitroaromatics and side reaction was perfectly suppressed through the precise control of residence time and intensified mass transfer. Further purification for the recovery of the 3,4-DCAN could be achieved by a simple distillation owing to the large difference of the boiling points between metha- nol (64.7 ℃) and 3,4-DCAN (272 ℃) at the standard condi- tions. Nevertheless, considering scale-up and process inten- sification, optimization toward higher flow rate and substrate concentration will be crucial for further development.