for CO2 hydrogenation to methanol synthesis. Due to the limitation of heat transfer in fixed bed reactor, it is always challenging to avoid the hotspot and temperature runaway. The process intensification potential of microreactor has attracted attention in the field of energy technology. The specific features of microreactor mainly include: (1) enhanced heat and mass transfer, (2) narrow residence time distributions due to fast species exchange by diﬀusion in the small lateral dimensions, and (3) low pressure drop. Therefore, it is a particularly interesting choice for those gas conversion processes in which selectivity and conversion are closely related to the heat/mass transfer properties of reactor and catalyst. However, most existing methods of combining catalyst and microreactor are often constrained to certain disadvantages such as easily crushed layer for washcoating, hotspot and sintering for catalyst particles in fixed bed. Hence, the distinctive feature of heat and mass transfer ability of mi- croreactor could be hindered by directly filling catalyst particles into microchannel [11]. In our previous work, Cu-Zn-Al layer structure compounds were selected as the precursors [12–15]. Small Cu clusters were generated as the active sites for CO2 hydrogenation to methanol. The Cu-Zn-Al cat- alyst was synthesized through co-precipitation methods. The atomic level homogeneous dispersion of catalyst brought high stability and activity. In addition, catalyst particles were diluted with quartz sand and then tested in the fixed bed reactor [16]. A good catalytic

Catalyst Reaction condition Conversion of CO2 (%) CH3OH Selectivity (%) CH3OH Yielda

In Eq. (4), Fin and Fout indicate the total flow rate at inlet and outlet of reactor; XCO in ,2 and XCO out indicate the concentration of CO2 at inlet and outlet of reactor; XN in ,2 and XN out indicate the concentration of N2 at inlet and outlet of reactor. In Eq. (5), X a in ( ) and X a out ( ) indicate the concentration of the components (a) at inlet and outlet of reactor. And nC a ( ) indicates the number of carbon atom in molecular formula. The copper time yield of methanol, noted as CH3OH Yield, which give the amount of CH3OH produced per gram of copper per hour, was defined by Eq. (6).

Reaction conditions: Pressure = 3 MPa, Temperature = 250 °C, H2/CO2/N2 = 73/24/3 (molar ratio).

Based on the internal standard method, the CO2 conversion (CCO2) and selectivity product (Sa) of chemical components (a) were calculated by the following Eqs. (4) and (5).

resistant gasket made of GARLAST was embedded between top cover and reaction plate to prevent leakage of gas during the reaction. The catalyst was reduced in-situ with 10 vol% H2/N2 with flow rate of 100 mL min−1 at 250 °C for 5 h. After the reactor was cooled to 200 °C, gaseous mixture (volume fraction: H2/CO2/N2 = 73/24/3) was fed into reactor. Then reactor was heated gradually to the reaction temperature. The flow rate of the gaseous mixture was monitored by a Brooks mass flow controller. The tail gas was online detected by gas chromatography (Agilent 7890B). Data were collected once the steady state was achieved and calculated by N2 as the internal standard. The main reaction network of CO2 hydrogenation includes the synthesis of methanol (Eq. (2)) and the reverse water-gas shift (RWGS) (Eq. (3)). Two chemical equations are as follows:

summarized in Table 5. The high weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) used in microreactor can significantly increase the selectivity of me- thanol [48,49]. From 5000 to 20,000 mL gcat −1 h−1, the conversion of CO2 decreases from 15.1% to 9.9% while the selectivity of methanol increases from 46.4% to 82.7%. According to thermodynamic analysis in Fig. S2, the methanol selectivity (46.4%) at 5000 mL gcat −1 h−1 is close to methanol selectivity (47.0%) at equilibrium of 250 °C, 3 MPa [35]. Generally, with the growth of WHSV, methanol formation rate has a linear increase while the formation rate of side product, CO, is easy to reach equilibrium point to make the ratio of methanol to CO larger [50]. The variation tendency of methanol selectivity is in consistent with the literature [51].

WHSV (mL gcat −1 h−1) Conversion of CO2 (%) CH3OH Selectivity (%)

Reaction conditions: Pressure = 3 MPa, WHSV = 10,000 mL gcat −1 h−1, H2/CO2/ N2 = 73/24/3 (molar ratio).

The monolithic catalyst and microreactor have been developed to enhance heat and mass transfer in the reaction system. The replacement and adhesion are significant in practicality in microreactor. Compared with present methods, the monolithic catalyst is more convenient in the replacement of spent catalysts, as other methods are often diﬃcult in changing the spent washcoating layer or catalyst particles in

in Table 2. The high CH3OH selectivity and yield have been achieved though the specific surface area and Cu dispersion of monolithic cata- lyst do not show a significant advantage. It is speculated that the ad- vance heat and mass transfer properties of the microreactor result in the high methanol selectivity of Cn-Zn/Al foam catalyst.

material, which demonstrates that the reactions in this study are not controlled by external diﬀusion. Moreover, three dimensional porous aluminum foam can keep an extremely low pressure drop under high gas flow rate. The thickness of layer structure obtained in present work is below 10 μm which is far less than 50 μm and it has been reported as a threshold layer thickness causing diﬀusion limitations [43]. The catalytic data presented in this study are not aﬀected by mass transport and the monolithic catalyst shows a good property of mass transfer. Compared with the literature, Cu-Zn/Al foam monolithic catalyst shows a good catalytic performance. A comparison of copper time yield of methanol is made among the present value (4.19 g gCu −1 h−1) and other yields using diﬀerent catalysts under the similar reaction condi- tions of 3 MPa, 250 °C, 10,000 mL gcat −1 h−1. The detail data are listed

3.2.2. The eﬀects of reaction conditions A parametric study was also carried out to investigate the eﬀect of reaction conditions on CO2 hydrogenation to methanol system. The synthesis of methanol (Eq. (2)) and the reverse water gas shift (RWGS) (Eq. (3)) are both thermodynamically limited reactions [35,44,47]. The influence of reaction temperature, pressure and space velocity on cat- alytic performance of CO2 hydrogenation in microreactor are sum- marized in Tables 3–5, respectively.

microchannel [52]. The adhesion test of layer structure on aluminum foam was performed in an ultrasonic vibrating instrument (JP-031S, Skymen Cleaning Equipment Shenzhen Co., Ltd) [53]. The result of adhesion test is shown in Fig. 8 and weight loss of 1#, 2#, 3# sample are 0.67%, 0.65%, 0.84%, respectively. The average value, only 0.7%, indicates a good adhesion property of our monolithic catalyst. Gen- erally, with the good practicality and property, the monolithic catalyst in microreactor has a great potential to intensify the reaction process.

performance of 25% CO2 conversion and 60% methanol selectivity was achieved [17]. Moreover, hydrothermal synthesis is an alternative process to make layered materials. Layer structure compounds on Al substrate can be synthesized via hydrothermal approach, which employs the Al sub- strate of a trivalent metal instead of its salt and oxide to be catalyst substrate. It has been proved that the monolithic catalyst supported by metal foam presents better performance than the particle catalyst for an exothermic reaction [18]. Monolithic catalyst in microreactor eﬀec- tively minimizes sintering and stabilizes the coke formation [19,20]. The focus of this paper is to study the new method of preparing monolithic catalyst of CO2 hydrogenation to methanol and investigate the influence of reaction condition on catalytic performance in micro- reactor. By eﬃciently integrating catalyst with microreactor, this method is helpful to fix the most critical problem of microreactor [21,22]. The textural and structural properties of monolithic catalyst were characterized in detail. And the advantage of this method to prepare the catalyst used in microreactor was discussed.

The test of CO2 hydrogenation to methanol was carried out in a microreactor. The photographs of the reactor and experimental plat- form are shown in Fig. 2A and B. The reactor system was insulated by an insulation box with quartz visualization window (180 mm squared). The reactor was made by 316L stainless steel assembled plates. The exploded view of microreactor is illustrated in Fig. 2C. The chamber (depth: 2 mm; width: 20 mm; and length: 50 mm) for monolithic cat- alyst was milled on a 3 mm thick 316 L stainless steel rectangular plate (Fig. 2D). The reaction substrate plate was bolted between two cover plates. Three electrical heating rods were inserted into each cover plate. Temperature distribution was measured by three K-type thermocouples which are evenly placed in bottom cover plate. High-temperature

CO2 hydrogenation turns to be an attractive pathway of C1 conversion. For CO2 hydrogenation to methanol, a novel method was investigated for the preparation of layer structured Cu-Zn/Al foam monolithic catalyst in- tegrated with microreactor. Such a monolithic catalyst could be loaded in a flange-type microreactor in the form of packed bed to intensify the process. As a result, a high copper time yield of methanol, 7.81 g gCu −1 h−1, was obtained at 250 °C, 3 MPa and 20000 mL gcat −1 h−1 due to the heat/mass-transfer properties with microreactor. Besides, the monolithic catalyst showed a good ability of adhesion.

Reaction conditions: Temperature = 250 °C, WHSV = 10,000 mL gcat −1 h−1, H2/CO2/ N2 = 73/24/3 (molar ratio).

= × × × WHSV The CH OH Yield 22.4 C S M W (6) CO methanol methanol

In this equation, WHSV is the weight hourly space velocity of feed gas (L gcat −1 h−1); CCO2 is the conversion of CO2; Smethanol is the se- lectivity of methanol; Mmethanol is the molecular weight of methanol; WCu is the weight of Cu (g) in the catalyst per gram.

