In this experiment, the liquid flow rate was varied, and the mass transfer of the microreactor was investigated. The gas flow rate was held at 0.05 sccm, while the flow rate of feeding solution ranged from 10 μL/min to 80 μL/min. The concentration of nitrobenzene at the inlet was maintained at 50 mM. Fig. 8 shows that the conversion of ni- trobenzene and the product concentration decreased with increasing

Fig. 7. Long-term performance of the tube-in-tube hollow fiber catalytic membrane microreactor. Gas flow rate: 0.05 sccm; liquid flow rate: 10 μL/min; nitrobenzene concentration: 30 mM.

microreactor. Some of the critical parameters (i.e., PDA film, gas flow rate, liquid flow rate and inlet nitrobenzene concentration) of the hollow fiber catalytic membrane microreactor were investigated to optimize the microreactor design. The feasibility of this design will be useful for the development of membrane microreactors.

Liquid flow(ȝL/min)

Fig. 10. Eﬀect of the inlet nitrobenzene concentration on the nitrobenzene conversion. Liquid flow rate: 10 μL/min; gas flow rate: 0.05 sccm.

The tube-in-tube hollow fiber catalytic membrane microreactor contained an internal hollow fiber catalytic membrane and external PTFE capillary tube. To permit the gaseous and liquid streams to flow into the membrane microreactor at the same time, an autonomous connector with two exits made by a syringe needle was adopted in the experiment. As illustrated in Fig. 1, the catalyst coated HFM was placed into a PTFE capillary. At the entrance of the tube, there was a specia- lized needle connected to the both the capillary tube and hollow fiber. Every capillary tube in this study included only one hollow fiber that allowed for gas flow. The middle interval between the hollow fiber and capillary tube was the passageway for the liquid reactant. The micro- channel for gas flow had a volume of 48 μL, a length of 50 cm and a diameter of 350 μm. The external microchannel for the liquid reactant had a volume of 474.9 μL, an outer diameter of 1 mm, an inner diameter of 450 μm and a length of 50 cm.

3.2. Performance evaluation of tube-in-tube hollow fiber catalytic membrane microreactor

The gaseous reactant was high-purity hydrogen, and it had an im- portant eﬀect on the conversion of nitrobenzene and the aniline pro- duct. In this experiment, the liquid flow rate was maintained at 10 μL/ min, and the inlet nitrobenzene concentration was kept at 50 mM. The only variable was the gas flow rate, which was varied from 0.01 sccm to 0.05 sccm. As shown in Fig. 9, when the initial gas flow rate was 0.01 sccm, the conversion of nitrobenzene was only 9.7%. As the gas flow rate increased, the conversion continuously increased. When the gas flow rate was increased to 0.05 sccm, the conversion of nitrobenzene and the aniline concentration were 91% and 45.5 mM, respectively. These results show that the performance of the microreactor was im- proved by more hydrogen, which can be explained by the following reasons. Increasing the gas flow rate increased the hydrogen pressure in the HFM and caused hydrogen concentration at the catalyst layer to be increased, which increased the reaction rate. An insuﬃcient hydrogen concentration may allow the liquid feed solution to compress the gas reactant. Correspondingly, there would be less gas available for the reaction. Increasing the gas flow rate increased the pressure, which was dramatically improved by the satisfactory permeability of the HFM. More hydrogen at the catalyst layer produced more aniline. At a given liquid flow rate, the increase in the gas flow rate increased both the conversion and product concentration. These results indicate that a relatively higher gas flow rate is required for a better performance of

Fig. 9. Eﬀect of the gas flow rate on the nitrobenzene conversion. Liquid flow rate: 10 μL/min; nitrobenzene concentration: 50 mM.

Fig. 8. Eﬀect of the liquid flow rate on the nitrobenzene conversion. Gas flow rate: 0.05 sccm; nitrobenzene concentration: 50 mM.

