The experimental data elucidating the effect of temperature and specific flow rate on the reaction, together with the simulation results, are presented in Fig. 6a and 6b. The data were measured by varying the feed gas flow rate from 0.5 to 4 sccm (0.04 to 0.32 sccm/µgcat) at 40 bar and constant reaction temperatures of 200 ◦C, 220 ◦C, and 240 ◦C. The experimentally measured CO concentrations closely match those pre- dicted by the simulations across different temperatures and flow rates. This agreement is illustrated in the parity plot shown in Fig. 6c, which demonstrates a good linear relationship with an R2 value of 0.995. This indicates that the model proposed in section 4.1 describes the kinetics with high accuracy across the employed range of test conditions.

In the current study, increasing the flow rate eightfold, from 0.04 to 0.32 sccm/µgcat, resulted in reaction rate increases by factors of 1.74, 1.86, and 1.77 at 200 ◦C, 220 ◦C, and 240 ◦C, respectively. This indicates that the extent of the increase of the reaction rate as a function of flow rate is essentially independent of the temperature and the product

The flow in the reactor is controlled by defining the flow rate at the inlet boundary condition, while the pressure is defined at the outlet boundary condition. The flow velocity is zero (u = 0) at the reactor walls. The density and viscosity of air, along with their temperature dependence, are assumed to adequately represent the properties of the reaction gas mixture. The gas mixture is assumed to behave as an ideal gas, and the pressure drop is considered negligible due to the short reactor length and low flow rates.

curate control of the low flow rates supplied to the 50 µL reactor channel through low dead volume capillaries and a sensitive product quantifi- cation down to 1 ppm via a GC. In the current experiments, with a feed gas flow rate of 0.5 sccm, temperature of 240 ◦C, and pressure of 40 bar, the CO concentration measured at the reactor exit was 1172 ppm and 645 ppm for samples with catalyst loadings of 2.1 µg/cm2 (8.8 ML) and 1.1 µg/cm2 (4.7 ML), respectively. This demonstrates a proportional relationship between catalyst loading and product concentration. By systematically decreasing the catalyst loading under the same condi- tions, CO concentrations of 50 ppm and 5 ppm at the reactor exit should be observed at catalyst loadings of 160 ng/cm2 (0.7 ML) and 16 ng/cm2

The SiO2-coated mica sheets decorated with nanoclusters were removed from the cluster deposition apparatus and loaded into the microreactor. These samples were then heated up to the required tem- perature with a ramp rate of 4 ◦C/min in a 3H2:1CO2 feed gas at a pressure of 40 bar. Feed gas flow rates were varied from 0.5 to 4 sccm (0.04 to 0.32 sccm/µgcat) for flow-rate effect experiments at 200 ◦C, 220 ◦C, and 240 ◦C. To study the pressure effect, the pressure was varied from 5 bar to 40 bar at 240 ◦C with a 0.5 sccm feed gas flow rate. All the reported data were collected 40–48 h after the start of the reaction to minimize the influence of catalyst deactivation and restructuring on kinetic data. The product lines from the reactor to the GC were heated to avoid the condensation of liquid products. In the GC the products were separated using a PlotQ capillary column and quantified with a Thermal Conductivity Detector (TCD) and a Flame Ionization Detector (FID). The FID is equipped with a methanizer and was operated with air and H2, flowing at rates of 350 mL/min and 50 ml/min, respectively.

Similar reasoning can be applied to demonstrate the absence of mass transport limitations. A detailed analysis presented in Section 4.5 will prove that the reaction does not occur in the mass transport-limited regime. Therefore, the increase in the reaction rate at higher flow rates can be attributed to non-linear changes in the residence time dis- tribution. In an ideal plug flow reactor, all the fluid molecules spend equal time inside the reactor and increasing the flow rate linearly de- creases the residence time of the reactants. In the current scenario, in- ternal mixing and recirculation are expected due to higher gas velocities near the inlet and outlet. This would cause a non-linear change in resi- dence time with increasing flow rate. These effects would also be in- dependent of the changes in temperature and are in line with our observations of the consistent reaction rate change across all temperatures.

The concentration profiles of CO at 240 ◦C and 40 bar are presented in Fig. 7b and 7c for the lowest and highest flow rates (0.04 and 0.32 sccm/µgcat, respectively). The simulation provides a detailed insight into the distribution of product along the length and width of the micro- reactor channel. These profiles reveal that the product concentration continuously increases from the inlet to the outlet of the reactor. Notably, the CO concentration is nearly constant along the width of the channel. These factors collectively indicate a close resemblance to an ideal plug flow reactor [59].

A slight increase in the reaction rate with the rising feed gas flow rate is observed (Fig. 6d) at all temperatures. Several factors could contribute

We present the novel design and evaluation of a 50 µL rectangular microchannel reactor capable of testing small quantities of catalyst at pressures up to 40 bar and temperatures up to 240 ◦C. To evaluate the microreactor performance, Pd0.25Zn0.75Ox nanoclusters soft-landed on SiO2-coated mica sheets using the cluster beam depo- sition technique, were tested for CO2 hydrogenation via the reverse water–gas shift reaction through a series of kinetic experiments.

grated into the top plate to introduce the reaction gas mixture and allow the outflow of products. Low-flow mass flow controllers (Bronkhorst High-Tech B.V.) are employed to control the gas flow rates into the microreactor. The products leave the microreactor through a 130 µm internal diameter stainless-steel capillary (Valco Instruments Co. Inc.) to reach a T-piece, where helium carrier gas can be introduced to accel- erate the flow towards a backpressure regulator with a small dead vol- ume (Equilibar® USA) and subsequently to the gas chromatograph (GC). The accelerated product flow rate lowers the response time of the GC to changes in the reaction conditions.

Fluid flow: The fluid flow in the microreactor channel is modelled by solving the continuity equation and the steady state Navier-Stokes equation for incompressible fluids in the ‘Laminar Flow' interface. The governing equations are as follows:

Reaction engineering and fluid dynamics simulations, performed with the COMSOL Multiphysics package [44], were used to validate the design and performance of the microreactor. The following governing equations were solved:

The kinetic parameters of equation (xii) were determined by fitting it to the experimental data. The Arrhenius plots at different specific flow rates (Fig. 5b) yield an apparent activation energy of Ea = 105 kJ mol−1. This result is consistent with previously reported values of 100 kJ mol−1

laboratory reactors. As a result, a specialized microreactor designed to handle these extremely small catalyst quantities on planar substrates is necessary to ensure sufficient contact time at lower feed gas flow rates, while minimizing product dilution. Additionally, the geometry of the reactor should be suitable for planar samples.

The high sensitivity of the microreactor is achieved through an ac-

microreactor. This diffusion process is crucial for determining whether the reaction is kinetically controlled or limited by mass transport.

As gas passes through the microreactor channel, which has a height of 70 µm, it establishes a parabolic velocity profile due to the no-slip condition at the walls. This results in a maximum velocity at the cen- ter of the channel, which decreases to zero at the reactor walls, including the catalytic surfaces (Fig. 7a). Consequently, the reactants must diffuse from the bulk flow to the surface of the catalyst through a stagnant fluid layer. Similarly, products formed on the catalytic surface will diffuse back through this stagnant layer to enter the bulk flow and exit the

The microreactor consists of two precisely machined stainless steel plates. The bottom plate has a rectangular cavity of 50 × 18 × 0.22 mm3, tailored to accommodate a 150–200 µm thick planar catalyst substrate decorated with nanoclusters. Positioned 2 mm away from each edge of the sample cavity on all sides, a 2.2 mm deep groove is carved, providing housing for a Kalrez O-ring (47.29 mm ID × 2.62 mm CS, FFKM 300B AED 90 ShA) to ensure a leak-tight seal. For thicker planar substrates, a similar bottom plate with a deeper cavity can be prepared.

and 120 kJ mol−1 for the RWGS reaction over CuO/ZnO/Al2O3 [47] and Pd/TiO2 [52] catalysts, respectively. The reaction order with respect to CO2 is 0.82, as determined by fitting the pressure dependence (5–40 bar) of the reaction rate at a fixed temperature of 240 ◦C (Fig. 5c). Table 1 provides a summary of the obtained kinetic parameters. These param- eters were used in COMSOL to simulate and visualize the design and performance of the microreactor.

As detailed in Section 2.1 and illustrated in Fig. 3a, the placement of the planar catalyst sample in the microreactor creates a rectangular microchannel measuring 48 × 18 × 0.07 mm3 (green), with catalyst deposited surfaces at the bottom of the channel (highlighted by or- ange dashed circles in Fig. 3b). The inlets and outlets are indicated by white-filled and dark-filled small circles in Fig. 3b at both ends of the channel. A 3D model of the microreactor was developed and discretized using a physics-controlled generation of a free triangular mesh, resulting in a denser mesh on the catalytic surfaces to accurately account for the non-zero boundary flux. Initially, simulations were conducted at a single temperature for the highest and lowest flow rates using a coarser mesh. The mesh density was then systematically adjusted until the results became independent of further increases in mesh density. Finally, all simulations were performed using a ‘fine' mesh comprising 2,561,479 domain elements, 716,140 boundary elements, and 5,910 edge ele- ments. An enlarged view (15×) of a corner of the discretized domain, shown in Fig. 3c, demonstrates the mesh generation used for the simulations.