Improved methods of manufacturing at microscales have opened up new opportunities for the development of compact, efficient, and highly con- trollable reactors. Rapid heat and mass transfer between fluids may now be engineered into reactors by the use of small channels for fluid transport. Short path lengths for thermal and molecular diffusion can provide an ideal environment for rapid exothermic=endothermic reactions while main- taining a laminar flow regime. Scale requirements for efficient mixing by diffusion can be characterized using the following equation (Crank, 1975):

Narrow channel microreactors have been evaluated for the reaction of im- miscible liquid-liquid systems. In order to stimulate rapid interphase mixing and mass transfer, alternating slugs of organic and aqueous phases were generated at a ‘‘T'' piece and flowed down an etched channel in a glass substrate. The detailed flow behavior was recorded photographically. Finally, some benzene and toluene nitration experiments were performed in stainless steel and PTFE capillary tubing in order to explore the industrial potential of microreactors for chemical production.

cm.s71 with slugs of typically 0.5 mm to 0.6 mm length provide much faster circulation times in the region of 0.02 s. A more flexible design was adopted for the nitration process in which narrow-bore capillary tubes were used to provide the reactor channels. The use of capillary tubes allowed easy variation in channel length and diameter. Both PTFE and stainless steel systems were produced using a range of narrow-bore capillary tubes that provided the environment for liquid mixing. Figure 3 shows the experimental facility used for per- forming the reaction work. Organic and aqueous flow was supplied either continuously from HPLC pumps or from syringe drivers. These were connected to feed capillaries of 254 mm bore for stainless steel systems and 300 mm bore for PTFE systems. All capillary tubes used for the system were 1.59 mm outer diameter. The feed capillaries transported the liquids from the pumps to the distributor illustrated in Figure 4. Early distributors were produced in stainless steel and later versions were made in PTFE as shown in Figure 4. The distributor consisted of channels drilled out to the same diameter as the capillary tube so that it could be fully inserted, thereby giving the minimum internal liquid volume. However, a small gap was left when positioning the tubes to allow liquid transfer into the

The use of Equation (6) for the slug flow environment within the microreactor was limited to its theoretical description of the order of the reaction. Since the process described within the model assumes mass transfer only by diffusion, the contributions of convection were not accounted for, and as such Equation (6) has no link to slug geometry or flow velocity. More general empirical models were therefore used to link the calculated reaction rate, given by Equation (8), to the operating conditions of the reactor.

where D is the diffusivity of the reacting molecules in the fluid, t the residence time, and Fo the Fourier number that determines the level of mixing. For essentially complete mixing over a distance of d, values of Fo should be close to or greater than unity. Much of the development work in the area of microreactors has focused on the use of narrow channel dimensions for rapid mixing of liquids by pure diffusion. Many references for this work can be found in the Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Microreaction Technology (2000). Reaction mechanisms involving multiphase flow have been given less attention, partly due to the greater complexity of their behavior in the presence of a fluid interface. Various methods of contacting multiphase flows in a microenvironment have been proposed. One method described by Burns et al. (1997) is to use parallel streams of liquid confined in narrow channels to allow efficient transfer by diffusion across the inter- face. Devices based on this concept are described by Harper (1997) and Harston et al. (1999). Another method employed for contacting immis- cible liquids or liquids and gases is to produce a matrix of fine droplets or bubbles from a structured array of tiny orifices. This method has been most successfully developed by IMM in the form of its Micromixer. Examples of this are given by Zech et al. (2000) and Bayer et al. (2000). The previously described methods of multiphase contacting do, however, have certain drawbacks. Parallel fluid flow involving purely diffusive transfer requires channel dimensions of below 100 mm to work effectively for rapid reactions. This can lead to high pressure drop requirements or low channel velocities, reducing throughput capabilities for chemical production. Dispersed systems, such as the IMM Micro- mixer, do allow higher throughput due to the larger pipe diameters, though the small size of the droplets and bubbles can create an additional postreaction separation requirement. A third method of contacting immiscible liquids was sought that would allow greater throughput per channel and easy separation; this has lead to the consideration of slug flow as a means of liquid contacting. Slugs of liquid, when confined within narrow channels, can be used to generate high frequency internal circulation due to the combination of shear within the channel and interfacial phenomena. Internal circulation generated by interfacial shear across a droplet interface has long been known as a method of enhancing mass transfer and is described in a wide range of literature, such as Clift et al. (1978). Typical circulation fre- quencies of 10100 Hz may be expected in submillimeter slugs traveling velocities of the order of cm per second. This provides a method of rapid transport to and from the interface, increasing the concentration gra- dients and mass transfer performance. Slug lengths are generally longer than the channel width with volumes equivalent to droplets with dia- meters two or three times the channel width. Separation of the phases at

Information Source Inlet ( C) Outlet ( C) H2SO4 (mass%) NB (mass%) DNB (ppm) DNP (ppm) Time (s) Rate (min71)

reactor capillary. Experiments with several designs of liquid distributor have been described earlier by Burns and Ramshaw (1998). These sug- gested that the minimization of internal volume was crucial for ensuring the production of short slug lengths in the reactor flow. A capillary tube of length between 30 cm and 180 cm was used to perform the nitration with internal diameters in the range of 127 mm to 300 mm. This length of tube was chosen to allow several cm.s71 flow velocities with rapid internal circulation while maintaining acceptable pressure drops of the order of a few bar. The reactor tube was coiled and placed on a hot plate that was insulated with layers of polyurethane foam along with thermocouples to verify tube temperature. Due to the rapid heat transfer into the narrow channel coupled with low liquid volumes the reaction was performed effectively isothermally at the tube tem- perature measured by the thermocouples. Slug generation within the PTFE capillary reactor could be checked visually using a stroboscope. Photographs of flow within the capillary were also taken for a nonreacting system using a dyed organic phase. Figure 5 shows the slug flow pattern within a 150 mm bore PTFE capillary

suffice, which may be created by simple manifolding methods. For larger outputs, etched microreactors containing thousands of channels working in parallel will be necessary. Work is underway to develop etched systems to perform these reactions using stacked sheets containing many etched capillary reactors, and this will be reported in future publications.

Keywords: Capillary; Microreactor; Nitration; Slug flow

An experimental investigation of multiphase flow through narrow sub- millimeter channels was conducted in a range of devices and materials. Initial work in this area was performed in etched stainless steel and glass systems and has been described in earlier publications by Burns et al. (1997). The development of devices to generate slug flow for reactions concentrated on the use of transparent materials, such as glass and per- spex, that allowed easy visualization of the flow patterns. The simplest mechanism for generating slug flow was the use of a T-junction with three intersecting channels. Figure 1 shows an example of a typical device constructed in glass using a slitting saw to cut the 380 mm wide and deep channels. Slug lengths of around 1.6 mm were generated in this device using a mixture of silicon oil and kerosene (dyed dark blue) for the organic phase and water for the aqueous phase. Figure 2 illustrates the circulation patterns theoretically expected to form inside the slugs due to the combination of the fluid interface and the shearing flow along the narrow channel. Circulation times within the slugs can be characterized by the ratio of the slug length L and average slug velocity v so that

