Improved methods of manufacturing at microscales have opened up new opportunities for the development of compact, efficient, and highly con- trollable reactors. Rapid heat and mass transfer between fluids may now be engineered into reactors by the use of small channels for fluid transport. Short path lengths for thermal and molecular diffusion can provide an ideal environment for rapid exothermic=

Narrow channel microreactors have been evaluated for the reaction of im- miscible liquid-liquid systems. In order to stimulate rapid interphase mixing and mass transfer, alternating slugs of organic and aqueous phases were generated at a ‘‘T'' piece and flowed down an etched channel in a glass substrate. The detailed flow behavior was recorded photographically. Finally, some benzene and toluene ni

cm.s71 with slugs of typically 0.5 mm to 0.6 mm length provide much faster circulation times in the region of 0.02 s. A more flexible design was adopted for the nitration process in which narrow-bore capillary tubes were used to provide the reactor channels. The use of capillary tubes allowed easy variation in channel length and diameter. Both PTFE and stainless steel systems were produced using a

The use of Equation (6) for the slug flow environment within the microreactor was limited to its theoretical description of the order of the reaction. Since the process described within the model assumes mass transfer only by diffusion, the contributions of convection were not accounted for, and as such Equation (6) has no link to slug geometry or flow velocity. More general empirical models were 

where D is the diffusivity of the reacting molecules in the fluid, t the residence time, and Fo the Fourier number that determines the level of mixing. For essentially complete mixing over a distance of d, values of Fo should be close to or greater than unity. Much of the development work in the area of microreactors has focused on the use of narrow channel dimensions for rapid mixing of liquids b

Information Source Inlet ( C) Outlet ( C) H2SO4 (mass%) NB (mass%) DNB (ppm) DNP (ppm) Time (s) Rate (min71)

reactor capillary. Experiments with several designs of liquid distributor have been described earlier by Burns and Ramshaw (1998). These sug- gested that the minimization of internal volume was crucial for ensuring the production of short slug lengths in the reactor flow. A capillary tube of length between 30 cm and 180 cm was used to perform the nitration with internal diameters in the range of 1

suffice, which may be created by simple manifolding methods. For larger outputs, etched microreactors containing thousands of channels working in parallel will be necessary. Work is underway to develop etched systems to perform these reactions using stacked sheets containing many etched capillary reactors, and this will be reported in future publications.

Summary: The paragraph discusses the development of a flow-chemistry process for nitration reactions using capillary microreactors with slug flow. Key reactants include organic substrates and nitrating agents like concentrated HNO3 or NO2-. Solvents can be used to control reaction conditions, while catalysts may enhance selectivity. Products are nitro-derivatives of the starting materials. The reactor type is a capillary microreactor with an internal diameter (ID) ranging from 50 to 200 µm. Critical conditions include flow rates between 1 and 3 mL/min, residence times less than 60 s, temperatures around 40-80°C, and pressures close to atmospheric pressure. Outcomes depend on the specific reaction and can be optimized by adjusting these parameters.

An experimental investigation of multiphase flow through narrow sub- millimeter channels was conducted in a range of devices and materials. Initial work in this area was performed in etched stainless steel and glass systems and has been described in earlier publications by Burns et al. (1997). The development of devices to generate slug flow for reactions concentrated on the use of transparent mat

