our experimental conditions, since had mass transfer affected the reaction rates, the actual conversions would have been much lower than conversions predicted by kinetics. The differences between the experimental and predicted conversions could be due to several assumptions made in developing the rate equation which might not be very accurate. In the batch reactor at 22 8C kinetics might have more influence on the rate than at 60 8C, which made the ratio of the rate in microreactor and batch reactor higher at 60 8C. The rate in the batch reactor at 60 8C might either be fully controlled by mass transfer or kinetics might have some influence on the rate. The enhanced mass transfer rate in a microreactor is due to circulation of small alternating slugs of the two liquids at very high speed inside the reactor as stated by Burns and Ramshaw [8]. These alternate slugs were also observed in our work when a transparent tube was installed at the outlet of the stainless tube reactor.

5.1. Prediction of the experimentally obtained conversions in the microreactor

Figs. 6–9 show the comparison of the conversion and the average reaction rates for the batch reactor and the microreactor at two temperatures of 60 8C and 22 8C. The average reaction rates reported in these figures are based on whole reactor volume and not on the acid phase only. Based on the acid phase volume

Fig. 12. Comparison of experimental and predicted conversion in microreactor at 22 8C.

Fig. 7. Average reaction rate in microreactor and batch reactor at 60 8C.

To compare the reaction rates of the microreactor and a batch reactor, we conducted the nitration reaction in a batch reactor made by PARR Instrument Company, model 5511 having a volume of 25 ml. It is made of stainless steel 316 and equipped with a magnetic drive stirrer. It has an electrical heating system and also a jacketed heating/cooling system. The reactor comes with, among other devices, a controller which can control the stirrer speed and reactor temperature, a pressure transducer and a sampling valve. For a batch run, initially 5 ml of 90 wt.% nitric acid was charged to the reactor. From a constant temperature water bath, water was circulated through

the rates would be 4 times higher than the rates reported in the figures. The microreactor data were obtained in a 120 cm long 775 mm inner diameter empty microreactor as mentioned before. The values of the ratio of the reaction rates of the two reactors at 60 8C and 22 8C as shown in Figs. 7 and 9 are approximately 30 and 15, respectively. This suggests that mass transfer rates influence the rate in the batch reactor. The higher ratio of the reaction rates at higher temperature is probably due to intrinsic kinetic rate rising much more rapidly than the mass transfer rate with the rise in temperature resulting in the influence of mass transfer resistance becoming more predominant at higher temperature. As mentioned later in this work, in the microreactor intrinsic kinetics probably influences the reaction rate under our operating conditions, while both mass transfer and intrinsic kinetics probably influence the rate in the batch reactor, particularly at low temperature. While appreciable amount of by-products were found in the microreactor, no appreciable by- products were found in the microreactor. Burns and Ramshaw [8] conducted the nitration reaction of toluene in a microreactor with mixed acid and found that the mass transfer coefficient is much higher in the microreactor compared to a conventional reactor.

Fig. 9. Average reaction rate in microreactor and batch reactor at 22 8C.

4.1. Comparison of the batch reactor and microreactor data

5. Kinetic studies from microreactor data

