2.5. Experimental Rig. A micromixer/tube reactor rig for continuous flow operation with tailored process flow was constructed, based on off-the-shelf components, as given above. Figure 3 shows the flow-scheme of the experimental setup. Two supply vessels (B1, B2) store the reactants (amines and R,â-unsaturated carbonyl compounds) which are fed by two syringe pumps (P1, P2) (PN 1610 syringe dosing systems, 2.5 mL syringe volume; Postnova Analytics, Landsberg, Germany) in separate capillaries (W1, W2), with a volume of 900 µL, for means of preheating. These hot

Figure 3. Flow scheme of the experimental setup for performing a chemical reaction continuously in a microstructured reactor. B1, B2, supply vessels; P1, P2, syringe pumps; W1, W2, preheating capillaries; R1, microstructured reactor/mixer; B3, tubular reactor; W4, water bath; V1, valve; P001, P002, P003, pressure gages; W3, cooler/heat exchanger; B4, storage vessel.19

microreactor process based on a microstructured mixer/ tubular-reactor setup has been established, optimized, and compared to the corresponding batch processes. Using a batch procedure, good yields (>85%) could be achieved; however, the process takes a very long time, up to 17 to 25 h. The microreactor process accelerated the reaction by orders of magnitude via ensuring fast mixing and efficient, simultaneous removal of reaction heat under improved thermal control. Yields of more than 90% could be achieved in this way which is slightly better than the yields of the batch process. Due to the speed-up of reaction by using microstructured reactors, high production rates are achiev- able, e.g., space-time yields are increased by a factor of up to 650 compared to those of the batch process.

Table 5. Comparison of space-time yields for batch processing and continuous-flow processing in microstructured reactors

batch microreactor ratio space-time yield microreactor/batch batch microreactor ratio space-time yield microreactor/batch

These characteristics indicate that the use of a continuous flow rig with microstructured reactors may accelerate the performance of the reaction without losing thermal control as, obviously, rapid mixing of the reactants as well as efficient heat removal have to be ensured. Such capability of this novel approach has been demonstrated many times, even under demanding processing conditions.3-8

flows are then contacted in the mixer/reactor (R1), the SIMM-V2/Ag40 micromixer. For prolongation of residence time, a tube reactor was added as delay loop element. The reaction is thereafter quenched by rapidly cooling the flow via the heat exchanger CRMH (W3) which is connected to an external thermostat. The reaction mixture is then stored in a separate vessel (B4). The preheater capillaries (W1, W2), the reactor (R1), and the tube reactor (B3) are immersed into a thermostat (W4). For heating to higher temperatures, water is replaced by oil. The pressure gauges P001 and P002 in front of the mixer monitor possible blockage of the mixer or of the tube reactor. The gauge P003 controls the pressure of the system which can be manually adjusted by a needle valve (V1). Two tube reactors of different geometry were used in the experiments, a tube with 1/4′′ outer diameter/74.5 mL inner volume and one with 1/8′′ outer diameter/9.8 mL inner volume. All experiments were performed under pressure, because the amines (dimethylamine, bp 7 °C, diethylamine, bp 55 °C, and piperidine bp 104-106 °C) would otherwise be or become gaseous under the temperatures employed. For the experiments at not-too-high pressure, all parts of the rig were connected by PTFE tubes. For the experiments using liquefied dimethylamine at 20-30 bar, stainless steel tubes had to be used. The liquified dimethylamine was fed from a pressurized gas cylinder via an HPLC pump. In some experiments the use of a tube section was not necessary; the residence time then only amounts to the time it takes to pass through the micromixer and the subsequent connectors (inner volume approximately about 1 mL). In Figure 4 a photo- graphic image shows the overall experimental setup as well as a detailed view of the mixer/tubular reactor mounted in the thermostat. 2.6. Reaction Analysis. The reaction mixtures were analyzed by a GC (Dani - GC 8610) with a Stabilwax (Crossbound Carbowax-PEG) 30-m column. All samples were injected at a temperature of 250 °C, and the column heating was programmed as a ramp starting from 80 °C to 210 °C with a rate of 10 K min-1. As detector, a FID was used which was operated at 300 °C. Apart from 3-diethyl

3.1. Development Target. The figure of merit for the experiments using the microreactor was to find process parameters yielding maximal space-time yields. The most governing parameters were assumed to be temperature, residence time (by total flow rate or by volume of the residence time section), and the molar ratio of amine 1 to R,â-unsaturated compound 2 (in the following, described briefly as molar ratio). The goal in the first step was to increase the reaction rate by increasing the temperature with the two other parameters set large; this was expected to promote conversion, since reliable kinetic data were not available. Then, residence time and excess of one of the reactants ought to be reduced as much as conversion is not reduced. Pressure was applied to the system to maintain a single-phase condition, but not with the intention of having an additional parameter for process optimization. 3.2. Reaction Time. Reaction time was decreased by orders of magnitude, from about 16-24 h for the batch processes to, at best, 0.1 min by using microstructured reactors for reaction R1, which adds dimethylamine (40 mass % in water) to acrylonitrile. This process probably is even faster, but this could not be detected with the experiments performed due to limitations in flow rate. Even for the much less reactive diethylamine (40 mass % ethanol), the addition to acrylonitrile was completed within less than 30 min, still

These Michael additions were made in smart, glass chip- type devices under electroosmotic flow conditions. Thus, flow rates were very low, in the mL/h range, and the

constant at 30 °C. After 16 h/24 h, respectively, the reaction mixture was analyzed by GC (Table 2). Reactions R2, R3, R5, and R6. An amount of 1.0 mol acrylonitrile (2a)/acrylic acid ethyl ester (2b) was added dropwise under stirring to 1.1 mol amine (1b-c) dissolved in 150 mL of ethanol. The process parameter and the analytical procedure were the same as those used for reactions R1 and R4 (see Table 3). Higher yields were found for the performed experiments compared to the literature values, which can be attributed to the fact that conversion was determined by GC directly from the raw reaction mixture without purification steps that lead to loss of yield (Table 3). 2.4. Microstructured Reactors. A slit-type interdigital micromixer (SIMM-V2/Ag40, IMM Institut fu¨r Mikrotechnik Mainz GmbH, Germany) was chosen as a microreactor. This device is made of stainless steel and reaches flow rates of about 2 L h-1 at a pressure drop of 2.8 bar for water (which is about the limit for the type of pumps used). The mixer is suited for pressures up to 100 bar (using stronger pumps, e.g., HPLC) and temperatures of 200 °C. Inside the mixer, an inlay of 11 mm × 7.5 mm × 3.6 mm size provides interdigitally grouped microstructured channels (width 40 µm and depth 300 µm; material: silver on copper) which ensure the formation of alternate fluid streams. These streams are guided through a tiny confinement of slit shape where they are considerably compressed. In this way, the SIMM-V2/ Ag40 mixer thus relies on multilamination and geometric focusing to speed up diffusion between lamellae being only a few 10 µm thick (Figure 1). Segregation indices in the range of about 10-3 to 10-5 are found, depending on the flow rate.10-13 By analytical calculations, a mixing time can be derived from this which ranges 0.8-5 ms.

