For the continuous-flow experiments, the experimental setup (Figure 1) consisted of two syringe pumps (Holmarc Optomechatronics, India) loaded with stainless steel syringes (SS316 syringe, 50 mL volume), one containing nitric acid and the other containing o-xylene, connected to SS316 tubes (1/8 in. o.d.). The outlets of the pumps were connected to an AmAr1 micromixer (Figure 1) followed by a residence time tube (3.12 mm o.d. and 2.1 mm i.d.). The entire assembly had five outlets (one immediately after the micromixer and the remaining ones located along the length of the reactor at equal intervals) with needle valves for sampling. The entire assembly was immersed in a heating/chilling thermostat (Julabo ME12) to maintain the system under isothermal conditions. The flow rates of the two reactants (1 and nitrating agent) were varied to achieve the desired mole ratio and residence time. Samples were collected at the diﬀerent outlets (corresponding to diﬀerent residence times) in a fixed quantity of ice-cold water. A known quantity of toluene (Merck) was used to extract the organic phase from these samples. The extracted organic phase was washed two times with water and separated by gravity. It was further washed with brine to remove residual

2 for nitration is relatively higher than that of 3. Furthermore, isomer 3 was found to have a greater tendency to yield oxidative products, although the rates of these oxidation reactions were relatively lower than those of nitration. In order to see the eﬀect of dispersion and the nature of the flow (with 3 mol of FNA and 1 mol each of water and 2, it becomes a two-phase flow), experi- ments in which the extent of mixing was varied by changing the flow rates and using longer residence time tubes were performed. It was observed that the extent of conversion was independent of the nature of mixing and that at identical residence times the conversion was almost identical (±2.4% variation) (Figure 7B). This implies that the micromixer followed by a tubular reactor oﬀers a system without any mass transfer limitations and is suitable for studying the reaction kinetics. Upon analysis of the data obtained at diﬀerent temperatures in continuous-flow mode at diﬀerent residence times, it was observed that the selectivities for diﬀerent dinitro derivatives from both 2 and 3 showed diﬀerent rate behaviors (Figure 8). In nitration of 2, increasing the temperature results in a reduction in the selectivity for 5 while the selectivities for 7 and 6 increased. These observations indicate that while the pre-exponential factor for the reaction giving 5 is higher than those for the other two isomers, the activation energies for the latter two are lower, which allows their selectivities to increase with increasing temperature. Similar trends were observed for the case of nitration of 3. These observations are important if one wants to exclusively synthesize any of these dinitro derivatives of 1. On the other hand, they also indicate that at a given reaction temperature for the mononitration of o-xylene, the residence time should be restricted to ensure that a complex mixture of dinitro derivatives is not formed. The literature shows that the melting points of the dinitro derivatives 7 (89 °C), 6 (82 °C), 5 (75 °C), and 4 (115 °C) vary closely and also over a wide range. This will require specific and controlled crystallization protocols to recover the pure mononitro derivatives, which will add more equipment as well as higher operational costs. In view of the above observations on nitration of 1 and independent nitrations of 2 and 3, it was thought desirable to use the optimal conditions to check the economic feasibility of the flow reactor. 3.3. Economics of a Continuous-Flow Reactor for Nitration of o-Xylene. Considering that the continuous-flow nitration of 1 is to be carried out for the production of 3 at 100 and 500 kg/h (i.e., about 72 TPM and 360 TPM, respectively), here we present a simple analysis of the economic feasibility of this nitration reaction in a jacketed tubular reactor. The conditions (residence time, temperature, and mole ratio of 1 to FNA) that yield the maximum selectivity for 3 were used as basis for the reactor design. As a simple system, it was considered that the reactor is to be fabricated using a combination of diﬀerent sections made from SS316 tubes of 2.5 mm i.d. (i.e., 3.175 mm or 1/8 in. o.d.) and 4 mm i.d. (i.e., 6.3 mm or 1/4 in. o.d.). In order to produce a fixed quantity of 3 in a given time, knowledge of the specific residence time fixes the total reactor volume. The smaller-diameter tube (3.175 mm) is usually cheaper than the larger-diameter (6.3 mm) tube, and it provides 1.89 times higher heat transfer area. However it needs a 2.54 times longer tube length to occupy the same volume and hence would oﬀer a higher pressure drop at identical flow rates to produce a fixed quantity of 3. The tube with smaller diameter also yields relatively better mixing and higher mass transfer rates. Thus, depending upon the heat generation rate in a specific region along the length of the reactor, it is necessary to ensure that an

Continuous-flow synthesis using microreactors is now a well- known reaction engineering tool that facilitates rapid mixing as a result of the small dimensions, large heat transfer area, and narrow residence time distribution. Accurate control of the residence time of the reactants and the possibility of adding one of the substrates along the length of the reactor help to minimize sequential reactions. Several reactions have been reported in the literature to give better yields and selectivities when carried out in microreactors compared with conventional batch-mode oper- ations. A comprehensive account of several such single-step and multistep reactions can be found in the literature.1−5 Reactions that are selectivity-sensitive (including polymerization reac- tions), radical reactions, reactions involving unstable intermedi- ates, reactions involving toxic reagents, exothermic reactions, etc., are among the most suitable reactions that can be conducted in microreactors or flow reactors. Among many exothermic and selectivity-sensitive reactions that have been demonstrated in microreactors, aromatic nitrations form an important class of reactions. In general, aromatic nitration reactions are highly exothermic, and the heat of reaction per electrophilic substitution by a nitronium ion is typically −100 kJ/mol. The functional groups on the aromatic ring and their positioning decide the activity of the molecule and also the heat of reaction. In the presence of excess nitric acid, secondary and tertiary nitrations cannot be avoided if the reaction is not controlled properly. Here we present the continuous-flow nitration of o-xylene (1) using a tubular reactor. Typical products from this nitration include mononitroxylenes, viz., 1,2-dimethyl-3-nitrobenzene (2) and 1,2-dimethyl-4-nitrobenzene (3), and also dinitro derivatives (4−7) depending upon the experimental conditions (Scheme 1). Reduction of 3 yields 1,2-dimethyl-4-aminobenzene (xylidine), which finds application in the synthesis of various important

Continuous-Flow Nitration of o‑Xylene: Eﬀect of Nitrating Agent and Feasibility of Tubular Reactors for Scale-Up

adequate heat transfer coeﬃcient is achieved by providing the necessary heat transfer area as well as the Nusselt number on the tube as well as the shell side. Thus, it is always possible to design a flow reactor that can take care of location-specific heat duties as the reaction proceeds along the length of reactor. In the present exercise, it was assumed that for a fixed capacity and for a given set of conditions the selectivity is independent of the reactor design, and hence, the downstream processing costs will remain the same. Similarly, for a given throughput the pumps have a wide pressure range, and hence, the same pumps are used independent of the reactor design. Considering the above criteria, here we give a quick approach that allows one to evaluate the possible design of a flow reactor. On the basis of the volume fraction of the reactor that yields a specific heat duty (or heat generation rate), its length can be estimated from its diameter, which eventually yields the cost of the specific section of the reactor. Thus, depending upon the fractions of the reactor used for diﬀerent heat loads, the total capital cost of a reactor (including the cost of a jacket depending upon the geometrical configuration of reactor, viz., coil, double coil, triple coil, etc.) can be obtained. The cost of the fittings and connectors can be added to the capital cost (tubular reactor + jacket). The operating costs are primarily the cost of pumping due to the pressure drops at a given flow rate in diﬀerent sections of the reactor and the cost of utility and its pumping through the jacket. Usually, single long tubular reactors are uneconomical because of the very high pressure drop, and hence, the numbering up approach is used, which reduces the flow rate through each reactor and therefore also the resulting pressure drop. Thus, while the capital cost of the reactor can be retained more or less the same (distributor cost gets added depending upon the numbering-up strategy), the operating costs can be reduced. Also, the capital costs and peripherals, including the control system, are a one-time investment, which usually depreciates and needs maintenance, adding to the recurring costs of a plant. We have followed the approach discussed in detail by Joshi and Doraiswamy22 for the design of a flow reactor for production of 3 at 100 and 500 kg/h. Back of the envelope calculations showed that a tubular reactor when split into N parallel units (i.e., numbering-up) would yield a much lower pressure drop because of the lower velocities in individual tubes. The details of the reactor design procedure, optimization approach, integration of mixing, heat transfer, and reaction will be reported separately. In Figure 9, we have shown the observations from the calculations for reactors having 10, 20, and 50 units running in parallel to achieve the desired production rates at varying volume fractions of 3.175 mm diameter tube (the rest being the 6.3 mm diameter tube). It can be seen that the capital cost (CAPEX) of the reactor continued to increase significantly as the volume fraction of the reaction mixture through the smaller-diameter tube increased (Figure 9A,B). With 50 parallel reactors, this increase was not significant. A plot of the total CAPEX of the reactor (including reactor cost, peripherals, control system, etc.) versus the total operating cost (OPEX) showed a positive correlation, with the steepness increasing with the number of parallel units used to fabricate the reactor (Figure 9C,D). Also, the steepness in the trend decreases at higher OPEX, which indicates that the OPEX plays a significant part in the overall cost right from the first year of reactor operation. Thus, having more continuous reactor units running in parallel is always economical as it decreases the OPEX compared with having a single flow reactor. A few such assemblies of tubular reactors can be seen in the literature.23−27

production capacity, numbering-up does not have significant eﬀect on the overall net profit. Also, reactors made of relatively larger tube diameter are expected to give better profit, provided that the design ensures that the local temperature in the reactor is controlled properly. Thus, the choice of suitable tube size needs to be made on the basis of the overall heat transfer coeﬃcient (usually limited by the tube size heat transfer coeﬃcient) and the ability to remove the heat eﬃciently throughout the reactor. The analysis showed that it is desirable to have a reactor made out of tubes of diﬀerent sizes to achieve better heat transfer depending upon the local heat generation rates. This approach can be extended to diﬀerent types of reactions, but the observations can change depending upon the type of reaction, rate of reaction, heat of reaction, number of phases involved, and the production capacity. ■ASSOCIATED CONTENT * S Supporting Information NMR spectra of mononitro and dinitro derivatives of o-xylene, mechanism of nitration with the nitrating mixture and fuming nitric acid, and additional experimental observations. The Supporting Information is available free of charge on the ACS Publications website at DOI: 10.1021/acs.oprd.5b00064. ■AUTHOR INFORMATION

Figure 9. Economic analysis of the continuous-flow nitration of o-xylene using SS316 tubular reactors. (A, B) Variation in the CAPEX with the volume fraction of 1/8 in. o.d. tube used to construct a flow reactor (the remaining volume is occupied by 1/4 in. o.d. tube) for production of 3 at (A) 100 kg/h and (B) 500 kg/h. (B) Eﬀect of numbering-up on the variation of CAPEX vs OPEX for production of 3 at (C) 100 kg/h and (D) 500 kg/h. (E, F) Net profits from the flow reactor under the assumption of complete recovery of products and complete conversion of o-xylene for numbering-up with (E) 10 and (F) 50 parallel units for the production of 3 at 500 kg/h.

water. Trace quantities of water were removed by passing the organic phase through a bed of anhydrous sodium sulfate. The samples were analyzed using gas chromatography with an HP5 capillary column and a flame ionization detector (FID). Dinitro impurities were identified using GC−MS. The influence of diﬀerent parameters, including temperature, residence time, nitrating agent (viz., FNA or nitrating mixture [HNO3:H2SO4, ∼40:60 v/v and also 1:1 mole ratio]), and nitric acid equivalents, on the conversion of 1 and yield of 3 was investigated. It needs to be noted that nitration of 1 with the nitrating mixture is a two-phase reaction, and hence, mass transfer limitation needs to be overcome. Experiments were carried out to measure the liquid−liquid mass transfer coeﬃcient over a range of flow rates. In a separate set of experiments, the nitration of mononitro derivatives 2 and 3 was studied at concentrations that mimic the conditions at the outlet of various experiments performed in the nitration of o-xylene. The setup consisted of three syringe pumps loaded with stainless steel syringes containing nitric acid and o-xylene and a polypropylene syringe (20 mL volume) con- taining water. The rest of the setup was kept the same as discussed previously. Samples were collected from various ports in a finite quantity of ice-cold water and later extracted in toluene. The samples were analyzed using gas chromatography with an HP5 capillary column. Products were identified using GC−MS and NMR analysis. The relevant spectra are given in the Supporting Information.

Chemical Engineering & Process Development Division, CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory, Dr. Homi Bhabha Road, Pashan, Pune-411 008, India

4. CONCLUSIONS Continuous-flow nitration of o-xylene (1) has ben studied with diﬀerent nitrating agents over a wide range of conditions of diﬀerent parameters such as temperature, residence time, and concentrations. The eﬀects of these parameters on the conversion of 1 and yield of 3 has been investigated in detail. When 4 molar equiv or more of mixed acid (∼40:60 v/v HNO3:H2SO4) was used at 40 °C with a residence time of 10 min, only dinitro derivatives of o-xylene were observed. With a nitrating agent consisting of an equimolar nitrating mixture (i.e., 1:FNA:H2SO4 = 1:1:1), even at higher temperatures (50−70 °C) and a longer residence time (∼20 min), no complete conversion of 1 was observed because of the lack of suﬃcient nitronium ion concentration. In the presence of sulfuric acid, the yield of 3 was always lower than in experiments performed using only FNA. The optimal conditions to achieve the maximum yield of 3 with minimum formation of dinitro derivatives in the nitration of 1 using only fuming nitric acid were found to be 20 °C and a residence time of less than 40 s. With a large excess of acids, higher temperature and/or longer residence time always resulted in large quantities of undesired products. An economic feasibility analysis of the continuous-flow jacketed tubular reactor for the production of 3 at 100 and 500 kg/h has been presented. The analysis showed that having more continuous reactor units running in parallel is always economical if the production capacity is high. For smaller

