Keywords: 2-Ethylhexanol 2-Ethylhexyl nitrate Nitration Microchannel reactor Kinetics

Fig. 2. Eﬀect of reaction temperature and residence time on the (a) conversion of 2-EH and (b) selectivity of EHN. M-ratio = 1.26; water content = 5%; S/N = 2; total flow rate = 1.2 mL/min.

addition, the mixed acid is usually fed by dropping into the reactant to avoid hot spot and regional over-nitration [6,7]. Obviously, such conditions induce large amount of coolant and long reaction time, leading to very low eﬃciency. To improve the reaction performance, two main approaches have been developed. One approach is using additives such as urea [8] to prevent side reaction or using large amount of inert solvent [9] to prevent fast heat accumulation. This method, however, increases the energy consumption in refining and acid recycling. The other approach is to develop high eﬃcient reactors such as static reactor and spinning disk. Yan et al. [4] employed a jet reactor to improve the mixing and a large reduction in the acid usage and reaction time was obtained. However, the reaction heat can only be removed by the cooling jacket that large amount of coolant is still needed. The above research results suggest that the current methods are still with low eﬃciency and there is huge need of improvement. Among the emerging novel reactors, microreactors hold great promises for process intensification, especially in fast and highly exothermic reaction [10–13]. With characteristic size in the range of tens to hundreds of microns, microreactors have huge specific surface area, providing both excellent heat and mass transfer rate [14–18]. Therefore, it allows fast mixing and quick heat removal during reaction. For the nitration of 2-EH, the reaction can be conducted at higher temperatures to increase the reaction rate while keeping the process safety. In this case, the usage of acid, as well as coolant, can be dramatically reduced. Moreover, microreactors can improve process

Experimental and kinetic study of the nitration of 2-ethylhexanol in capillary microreactors

safety because of low material hold-up, which has limited damage when hazardous situation happens. Other advantages such as miniaturization and the numbering-up mode can reduce the investment in R & D and commercial application. In accordance with these advantages, our previous work shown that the nitration of 2-EH in microreactors can be eﬀectively enhanced, and the reaction was highly dependent on sulfuric acid concentration and temperature [10]. However, a deep understanding of the reaction with respect to reaction kinetics is rather limited, which is very important for process design, despite the fact that 2-EHN has been commercially produced for long time. Since excellent process control can be obtained in microreactors [19], they also serve as ideal tools for the determination of reaction kinetics [20–23], including apparent and intrinsic kinetics. In this paper, the synthesis of EHN was studied in capillary microreactors. A microchemical system was designed to precisely control the reaction time and reaction temperature. The objective of this work was to determine the reaction kinetics of the nitration of 2- EH. Firstly, the eﬀect of reaction temperature, residence time, HNO3 to 2-EH molar ratio, water content in the mixed acid on nitration process was studied. Based on the experimental results, both the apparent and intrinsic kinetics were calculated with an assumption of homogeneous reaction.

Fig. 3. Eﬀect of M-ratio and water content in mixed acid on the (a) conversion of 2-EH and (b) selectivity of EHN. Temperature = 298 K; residence time = 10 s; S/N = 2; total flow rate = 0.5 mL/min.

The experimental setup is shown in Fig. 1. 2-EH and mixed acid were delivered separately by metering pumps (America Lab Alliance Series II). The fluids were firstly mixed in a T-mixer with an inner diameter of 1.0 mm (stainless steel), and then reacted in stainless steel capillary with an inner diameter of 0.6 mm. The residence time was

regulated by changing the length of the reaction tube. The feed tube, the mixer and the reaction tube were all immersed in a water bath to ensure a constant reaction temperature. After the reaction was quenched with ice-water mixture, the liquid samples were collected from the organic phase. For each condition, the samples were collected and analyzed for three times.

Fig. 4. Determination of rate constants at S/N= 2, total flow rate = 1.2 mL/min (a) concentration of sulfuric acid = 13.54 mol/L, M-ratio = 1.25; (b) concentration of sulfuric acid = 12.95 mol/L, M-ratio = 1.20; (c) concentration of sulfuric acid = 12.36 - mol/L, M-ratio = 1.24.

