The structure of the stainless steel microreactors used in this experiment is shown in Fig. 1. Etched plate had the same inlet configuration on both sides between point 1/point 2 and point 3 [see Fig. 1 (b)]. Parent channel was divided equally into two arc shaped sub-channels stage by stage until 16 parallel channels were generated. Organic compound and mixed acid were fed at point 1 and point 2, respec- tively. The two flows passed through each inlet zone independently and converged at orifices (point 3) on one side of microreactor plate. Reactants mixed and reacted along the microchannels between point 3 and point 4 with the dimension of every microchannel of 0.5 mm×0.5 mm×78 mm. In this reaction process, the total microreactor system was heated by electric heating method. The mixture of reaction product ef- fused the microreactor at point 4.

(b) Lateral view of the inlets configuration of the microreactor

(3) Considering the advantages of the microreactor, the direct nitration of iso-octanol with mixed acid was conducted at or above room temperature (25°C) in our study to investigate the potential of the microreactor from both process efficiency and safety point of view.

The main objective of this paper is to demon- strate the feasibility and safety of the 2-ethylhexyl nitrate synthesis in the microreactor system, which is proposed to carried out fast exothermic liquid-liquid reaction for energetic material synthesis. The nitration of iso-octanol with mixed acid exhibits the typical features of the fast highly exothermic reaction, even potentially explosion or side reactions associated. The characteristics of the nitration process were investigated by studying the effect of mixed acid composition and operating conditions on the conver- sion of iso-octanol and the average reaction rate. The results showed that the reaction could be almost com- pleted in the microreactor system under some particu- lar reaction conditions. Also, the reaction could be conducted safely and stably in the microreactor at 2540°C, which are enhanced compared to 15°C or below for safe operating conditions in the conven- tional reactors. Moreover, no by-product was formed and 98.2% of the conversion of iso-octanol could be obtained. Microreactors with enhanced heat and mass transfer combined with small internal channel dimen- sions offer an excellent tool to reduce overall effort to commercial processes for fast exothermic liquid-liquid heterogeneous phase reaction. Based on the advanta- geous mentioned above, it can be accepted that the microreactor is one of the most suitable research and industrial instruments for fast exothermic liquid-liquid reaction.

On the basis of studying the effect of independent parameters on synthesis of 2-EHN in the microreactor, a series of experiments were carried out to optimize the reaction conditions to offer more information for industrialisation. The products from the microreactor with or without cold trap section were respectively collected to compare quantitatively the conversion of the iso-octanol under same reaction conditions, as shown in Table 2. It was shown that the conversion of the iso-octanol in the microreactor without cold trap section was higher than with cold trap section due to the longer reaction time, indicating the tube connected to the output or the long channels of the microreactor were in favor of enhancing the conversion of the iso-octanol. In fact, it is observed that the reaction is still mainly accomplished in the microreactor system, ensuring the safety of reaction process and the purity of product. It can be seen that the conversion reached 98.2% in the microreactor without cold crap when the reaction temperature was 35°C, the residence time was 7.2 s, and the HNO3/C8H17OH mole ratio was 1.5. So the nitration of iso-octanol can be carried out in the microreactor efficiently and safely.

In order to investigate the effect of LHSV on the nitration process of iso-octanol, the experiments were carried out using two kinds of typical mixed acid composition at room temperature. Their mass compo- sition was 58% H2SO4 and 26% HNO3, and 74% H2SO4 and 24% HNO3, respectively. The average re- action rate is plotted against LHSV in Figs. 6 and 7. It could be seen that the average reaction rate was di- rectly proportional to LHSV for both reaction systems, implicating these nitration processes were still limited by mass transfer in the microreactor. In fact, the effect of LHSV was more remarkable in the mixed acid with higher sulfuric acid strength because the reaction rate was faster and the nitration process was more greatly limited by mass transfer performance of liquid-liquid immiscible two phases. According to our previous research [24], the flow regimes selected for the present investigation are mainly the parallel flow with smooth interface, the parallel flow with wavy interface, and even the chaotic thin striations flow in this microreac- tor. The hydrodynamic characteristics of mass transfer in these flow regimes have been systematically inves- tigated. The overall volumetric mass transfer coeffi- cients obtained are more than two or three orders of

Abstract In this paper, the nitration characteristic of alcohols with mixed acid for the synthesis of energetic mate- rials in a stainless steel microreactor was investigated experimentally. The nitration of iso-octanol with HNO3-H2SO4 mixed acid was chosen as a typical model reaction which involved fast and strong exothermic liquid-liquid heterogeneous reaction process. The influences of mixed acid composition, flow rate, organic/aqueous flow ratio and reaction temperature have been investigated. The results indicated that the reaction could be con- ducted safely and stably in the microreactor at 2540°C, which are enhanced compared to 15°C or below for safe operating conditions in the conventional reactors. Moreover, the 98.2% conversion of iso-octanol could be obtained and no by-products were detected in all cases. Keywords nitration, 2-ethylhexyl nitrate, microchannel, micromixer, microfluidic

Figure 1 Structure of microreactor

In the nitration of iso-octanol with mixed acid, chemical reaction and mass transfer are simultane- ously carried out and both affected by the mixed acid composition. In order to investigate the nitration process of iso-octanol in the microreactor, a series of experiments were performed with different operating conditions.

