nitration, chlorination, biphasic Heck reaction, Wittig reaction, Kumada-Suzuki coupling, etc. The high heat transfer area helps to achieve a better control on the temperature variation in the microreactor. This further helps to maintain the rates of reaction in specific ranges and thus avoids byproduct formation. Also, the small length scales help to achieve faster mixing, thereby reducing the possibility of byproduct formation in fast reactions. These advantages of microreactors are now known, and as a result, they have been used for the continuous flow synthesis.1-8,10

Introduction Continuous flow synthesis using microreactors is an upcom- ing approach in the synthesis of key pharmaceutical intermedi- ates and fine chemicals where either the reactions are highly exothermic or there are situations where the selectivity of the product is an issue.1-8 It allows high throughput screening of catalysts and also of reactions. The subject of microreaction technology has achieved significant attention in the laboratory- scale research and development for the design of new devices towards specific applications, viz. for carrying out specific reactions, heat removal, attaining narrow residence time dis- tribution, continuous synthesis of nanoparticles, and also in checking their feasibility for multistep processes.9 In the past few years, there have been reported in the literature, several reactions that have better yield when carried out in microreactors than when carried out in the conventional batch mode opera- tion.10 Typical classes of reactions which are studied using microreactors include fluorination, oxidation, hydrogenation,

Continuous flow nitration of salicylic acid using HNO3/AcOH was studied in the SS316 tubular microreactor. At specific reaction conditions, complete conversion of the reactant was achieved in less than 7 min. It yielded only mononitro derivatives with a higher selectivity of 5-nitrosalicylic acid. Presence of the lower amount of acetic acid in the reaction mixture was seen to be detrimental, leading to precipitation of the desired product (5-nitrosalicylic acid). Reaction at higher temperatures yielded byproducts. The continuous mode operation using the system comprising the microdevices was demonstrated for 2 h with consistent composition at the outlet.

analysis. On confirming the entire procedure and the analysis method, we extended it for the continuous flow experiments. For the continuous flow experiments, typically the experi- mental setup involved two HPLC pumps (Laboratory Alliance, U.S.A.) followed by a micromixer, which was then connected to a 12 m long stainless steel (SS316) tube (1/16 in. o.d. and 1.38 mm i.d.). The SS tube was immersed in a thermostat (Julabo - ME12, Germany), and the samples were collected at the outlet of the tube. The residence time was varied by changing the flow rates. Experiments were carried out at different conditions as shown in Table 1. The samples were collected in glass vials immersed in an ice bath (to quench the temperature of the reacting mixture and thereby avoid any further reaction), and after getting volume sufficient for analysis, the unreacted nitric acid was removed by adding urea in methanol solution. The supernatant was subjected to analysis after further dilution. It is necessary to note that the results from the HPLC analysis were based on calibration of the column response for different concentrations of the reactants and the products. A schematic of the continuous flow setup is shown in Figure 2.

A detailed discussion on the advantages of continuous flow synthesis and a list of different classes of reactions that can be carried out in continuous flow mode can be seen in a recent review by Wiles and Watts.11 Also, since the concept of continuous flow synthesis is feasible in the devices having dimensions that do not offer any transport limitations, it is not always necessary to carry out the flow synthesis using the microdevices, and dimensions slightly greater than a millimeter may also be feasible. Nitration of aromatic compounds is usually exothermic and fast, and in the presence of excess nitrating agent or at higher temperatures, it can undergo polynitration.12,13 In many aromatic nitrations to avoid the effect of high temperatures that may be generated in the presence of excess nitrating agent, convention- ally, the nitrating agent is slowly added to the aromatic substrate (which can be in the form of solid or liquid). To overcome this situation due to poor heat transfer in the system, in the past few years, the advantage of high heat transfer area and better mixing in microreactors is exploited to check the feasibility of nitration of aromatic compounds. Some of the important initial studies include the following: (i) Burns and Ramshaw14 have reported the nitration of benzene and toluene using mixed acids in a microreactor. In their experiments, the two-phase slugs were generated using a "T", and the reaction was studied in SS tubes (127, 178, and 254 µm i.d., 1/16 in. o.d.) and PTFE tubes (127-300 µm i.d., 1/16 in. o.d.). For all the experiments, acid to organic flow ratio was maintained at 10.5, while the benzene to nitric acid mole ratio was in the range of 0.8-1.8. With similar experiments of toluene nitration in a 150 µm PTFE tube, these authors have shown that higher concentration of H2SO4 pushes the reaction in mass transfer limited regime and smaller diameter tubes yield better initial nitration rates. Also, higher

Table 2. Inlet composition, experimental conditions, and results for continuous flow experiments

Thus, the continuous flow nitration of salicylic acid in a SS316 tubular reactor yielded only the mononitro products at the outlet with higher selectivity for 5NSA. The better con- ductivity of metal, high heat transfer area, and the specific residence time helped to practically bypass the byproduct formation in this process. The experiments at different temper- atures showed a positive relationship between the selectivity of 5NSA and temperatures. Also, a higher amount of the nitrating agent was seen to reduce the reaction time and achieve higher selectivity for the desired product. Lower amounts of acetic acid were seen to lead to precipitation of 5NSA in the tubular reactor, causing blockage. A continuous flow experiment at 50 °C with 7 min residence time for 2 h yielded consistent outlet composition. Although the higher amount of acetic acid is needed to keep the desired product in solution, complete recycle of acetic acid would help to reduce the acetic acid inventory. The economics of this continuous process, the optimization of the operating conditions and the design param- eters (heat transfer area and heat transfer coefficient) will be discussed elsewhere with the help of systematic modeling and simulations for this system.

mixing of the fluids. It was observed that, although replacing the HPIMM micromixer with the T-mixer helped in eliminating the blockage in the mixer itself, for the SA:AcOH mole ratio in the range of 1:3 to 1:9, the product clogged the tube completely, and practically nothing came out of the tube. This was also observed for different orientations of the coiled tube (vertical, horizontal, etc.) and also for the tube of larger diameter (3.175 mm o.d. and 2.77 mm i.d.) even in a serpentine configuration oriented horizontally. On removing the clogged compound, it was confirmed to be 5NSA. In order to avoid such situations, the mole ratio of SA:AcOH was taken as 1:16, and the experiments were carried out without any blockage problems in the entire setup. In all these experiments, the mole ratio of SA:HNO3 was maintained at 1:5. The observed outlet yields at 20 °C at different residence times (for continuous mode) or sampling times (for batch mode) are shown in Figure 3. The results from the batch experiments (mainly carried out to verify the analysis approach quantitatively) were compared with the reported data in Andreozzi et al.25 at identical conditions and were seen to agree well. It can be seen that the percent yield of 5NSA observed in the continuous experiments in the tube of 1.38 mm i.d. was better than that of the batch experiments. It needs to be noted that, although in the batch as well as the continuous experiments the SA:HNO3 mole ratio was maintained the same, the continuous flow experiments contained very high amounts of AcOH, resulting in lowering the overall concentration of the reactants. Importantly, the continuous flow experiments yielded only the mono-NSA as products, while in the batch experiment we observed 3,5- dinitrosalicylic acid as a byproduct along with the mono-NSA. It needs to be mentioned that the measured area available for heat transfer per unit volume of fluid was 3318.63 m2/m3, which was sufficiently high to maintain the constant temperature in the entire reaction tube. Further, the selectivity of 5NSA, which

Results and Discussions As mentioned previously, in the case of continuous experi- ments, the outlets from the two pumps were connected to a micromixer. Initially the experiments were carried out using HPIMM interdigital micromixer at 20 °C. It is worth mentioning that, because of the lower solubility of 5NSA in the aqueous medium, upon mixing and subsequent reaction the product precipitated. This resulted in the blocking of the HPIMM micromixer and also a very high pressure drop. In order to avoid such a situation, we used a simple T-mixer (800 µm i.d.) for (27) Kondo, Y. J. Radioanal. Nucl. Chem. 1999, 242 (2), 515–526.

mode of operation batch and continuous batch batch and continuous system batch: 40 mL volume in a glass reactor batch: 20 mL glass reactor batch: 100 mL glass reactor continuous: tubular reactor in SS316 (1.58 mm o.d., 1.38 mm i.d. and length ) 12 m)

