Entry a Flow Rate (mL/min) H2 Pres. (MPa) Temp. (°C) Solvent Yield (%) b

Entry a Flow Rate (mL/min) H2 Pres. (MPa) Temp. (◦C) Solvent Yield (%) b

Continuous-flow hydrogenation. In this work, a more environmentally friendly and practical continuous-flow hydrogenation system was developed by using a micro-packed- bed reactor (MPBR) filled with Pd@SBA-15 as a reusable catalytic model. Aromatic amines were prepared by a safe and eﬃcient hydrogenation process using nitroaromatics and hydrogen as feedstock. In the optimization of reaction parameters, the reaction was car- ried out with methanol as the solvent. The yield of the aniline reached 85%, 96%, 99%, and 99% under the reaction temperature being 40 °C, 50 °C, 60 °C, and 70 °C, respectively (Table 1, entries 1–4). By further adjusting the flow rate from 0.25 to 1.00 mL/min, the nitrobenzene could be completely hydrogenated at a flow rate of 0.5 mL/min (Table 1, entries 3, 5–7), representing that the optimal residence time of this continuous-flow system was 1.0 min. By slightly increasing the H2 pressure to 3.0 MPa, the yield barely increased, representing that the H2 pressure was suﬃcient (Table 1, entries 8–9).

Continuous-flow hydrogenation. In this work, a more environmentally friendly and practical continuous-flow hydrogenation system was developed by using a micro- packed-bed reactor (MPBR) filled with Pd@SBA-15 as a reusable catalytic model. Aromatic amines were prepared by a safe and efficient hydrogenation process using nitroaromatics and hydrogen as feedstock. In the optimization of reaction parameters, the reaction was carried out with methanol as the solvent. The yield of the aniline reached 85%, 96%, 99%, and 99% under the reaction temperature being 40 ◦C, 50 ◦C, 60 ◦C, and 70 ◦C, respectively (Table 1, entries 1–4). By further adjusting the flow rate from 0.25 to 1.00 mL/min, the nitrobenzene could be completely hydrogenated at a flow rate of 0.5 mL/min (Table 1, entries 3, 5–7), representing that the optimal residence time of this continuous-flow system was 1.0 min. By slightly increasing the H2 pressure to 3.0 MPa, the yield barely increased, representing that the H2 pressure was sufficient (Table 1, entries 8–9). The yield of aniline decreased to 23%, 31%, and 52% when ethanol, ethyl acetate, and acetonitrile were used as the solvent, respectively (Table 1, entries 10–12). When tetrahydrofuran replaced methanol as the solvent, the yield was significantly reduced and close to zero (Table 1, entry 13), as was the result obtained with dimethylformamide (Table 1, entry 14). Hydrogen had a higher solubility in methanol, and hydrogenation had a higher activity coefficient when methanol was used as a solvent, which had been studied and reported in the literature [41]. Thus, the results of the optimized solvent indicated that methanol was the optimized solvent in this hydrogenation. The palladium loading of the Pd@SBA-15 was around 5% (w/w), investigated by ICP-OES, as shown in Table S1. This was a very important characterization parameter for evaluating catalytic

a Reaction conditions: substrate (0.1 mol/L, methanol as solvent), catalyst (Pd@SBA-15, 0.1 g), flow rate (0.50 mL/min), H2 (1.0 MPa), back-pressure (0.9 MPa), 60 °C, and 1.0 min. b The experimental yields were determined by HPLC. c The highly concentrated reaction conditions: nitrobenzene (2.0 mol/L, methanol as solvent), catalyst (Pd@SBA-15, 2.0 g), flow rate (0.50 mL/min), H2 (1.0 MPa), back-pressure (0.9 MPa), 60 °C, and 1.0 min.

a Reaction conditions: substrate (0.1 mol/L, methanol as solvent), catalyst (Pd@SBA-15, 0.1 g), flow rate (0.50 mL/min), H2 (1.0 MPa), back-pressure (0.9 MPa), 60 ◦C, and 1.0 min. b The experimental yields were determined by HPLC. c The highly concentrated reaction conditions: nitrobenzene (2.0 mol/L, methanol as solvent), catalyst (Pd@SBA-15, 2.0 g), flow rate (0.50 mL/min), H2 (1.0 MPa), back-pressure (0.9 MPa), 60 ◦C, and 1.0 min.

According to the above results, the optimized flow rate, H2 pressure, reaction temper- ature, residence time, and solvent were set to 0.50 mL/min, 1.0 MPa, 60 ◦C, 1.0 min, and methanol. The scope of this hydrogenation was then investigated by using various nitroaro- matics with different functional groups as the reactants (Table 2). First, the compatibility of different functional groups on the nitrobenzene ring was studied. Under optimal reaction conditions, regardless of the ortho, meta, or para substituent groups, the electron- withdrawing and electron-donating groups were well compatible in this reaction, which matched the expectations from the literature [6,15,16,42–50]. Therefore, the corresponding target products were able to achieve high yields (Table 2, entries 1–15). Notably, when more than one unsaturated group was present, only the nitro was hydrogenated tested by HPLC, indicating that the catalyst was highly selective for the nitro group (Table 2, entries 10–15). In addition, when nitropyridines were used as the reactants, the corresponding products could also be successfully synthesized in high yields by this hydrogenation pro- cess (Table 2, entries 16–17), indicating it was a universal continuous-flow hydrogenation method. Similar to the aniline synthesis, the electron-withdrawing and electron-donating groups did not affect the hydrogenation of nitropyridines. Furthermore, the highly con- centrated synthesis of aniline was carried out and resulted in a good yield, demonstrating

where misolated is the mass of the isolated product by silica gel column chromatography during run time; C0 is the concentration of the feedstock in the solution; F0 is the flow rate

Materials. All chemical reagents with the analytical grade were purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co. (Shanghai, China) without further purification. Poly(ethylene glycol)-block-poly(propylene glycol)-block-poly(ethylene glycol) (average Mn~5800) (Pluronic®P-123), tetraethyl orthosilicate (TEOS) (28.4% SiO2), hydrochloric acid (HCl) (12 M), cyclohexane (99.7%), ethanol (EtOH, anhydrous, 99.7%), palladium(II) chloride (99%, 59% Pd), methanol (MeOH, AR), ethyl acetate (EA, AR), tetrahydrofu- ran (THF, AR), acetonitrile (MeCN, AR), dimethylformamide (DMF, AR), silicon diox- ide (100–200 mesh), palladium/carbon (Pd/C, 5% (w/w) on carbon), nitrobenzene (99%), 4-nitrotoluene (99%), 3-nitrotoluene (98%), 2-nitrotoluene (99%), 4-nitrophenol (99%), 3-nitrophenol (99%), 2-nitrophenol (99%), 4-nitroanisole (98%), 2-nitroanisole (99%), 4-nitrobenzoic acid (99%), 3-nitrobenzoic acid (99%), 2-nitrobenzonitrile (98%), 2-nitrobenzaldehyde (99%), 4′-nitroacetophenone (98%), 4-nitrobenzamide (98%), 2-methoxy-5-nitropyridine (98%), and 5-nitropyridine-2-carboxylic acid (97%). H2 (99.999%) was purchased from Hangzhou Jingong Special Gas Co., Ltd. (Hangzhou, China). Synthesis of Pd@SBA-15. Mesoporous silica template SBA-15 was synthesized fol- lowing the conventional method reported in the literature [30]. A total of 0.1 g of PdCl2 was added to 10 g of 12 M HCl to dissolve completely. Next, 1 g of SBA-15 was added to the solution and stirred continuously at a constant temperature of 80 ◦C until the solution was completely evaporated. The solid obtained after evaporation was loaded into a quartz boat in a quartz tube. The quartz tube was placed in a preheated tube furnace at 350 ◦C for 4 h with a continuous hydrogen gas flow (flow rate = 150 mL min−1). Then, the tube furnace was cooled to room temperature, and the catalyst Pd@SBA-15 was obtained. The Pd@SBA-15 obtained was immediately stored in a vacuum-drying oven to prevent the influences of water and oxygen in the environment. Hydrogenation in a micro pack-bed reactor (MPBR). The synthetic Pd@SBA-15 was loaded into an HPLC column (5 mm diameter and 50 mm long), and the ends were filled with silicon dioxide. Then, the HPLC column was sealed with sealing nuts, and the MPBR was obtained. The entire MPBR was placed vertically in a water bath for precise temperature control. The feedstock was dissolved in the solvent and pumped into the microreactor via a metering pump. The hydrogen was controlled by a hydrogen pressure gauge. Two check valves prevent backflow of gas and liquid. The hydrogen and the solution were mixed in a T-joint mixer before entering the inlet of the MPBR. The gas–liquid mixture was then hydrogenated in the MPBR, and the hydrogenation temperature was controlled by a water bath. All tubing was stainless steel with an outside diameter of 1/16". A manual back-pressure regulator was placed at the outlet of the reactor to control system pressure. Due to the presence of check valve and back-pressure regulator, the continuous- flow system is almost completely isolated from air. The reaction conditions were optimized by adjusting parameters such as hydrogen pressure, flow rate, and temperature. Purification and yield determination. The experimental yield of the product was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) using external standard method. HPLC detection conditions: HPLC Column (XB-C18, 10 µm, Dim 4.6 × 250 mm), mobile phase (isocratic elution, H2O:MeOH = 40:60), flow rate (1.00 mL/min), ultraviolet wavelength (254 nm), and chromatographic column temperature (30 ◦C). After purification by silica gel column chromatography and removal of the solvent, the mass of the isolated product was obtained. Then, the isolated yield and the production rate were calculated by Equations (1) and (2), respectively:

(WC) obtained through a urea glass route with high activity and chemoselectivity for the continuous flow hydrogenation of nitro compounds [13]. Moreover, they extended WC and prepared a bimetallic Ni@WC composite characterized by high activity for the cardanol hydrogenation. Although continuous flow reactors have shown many excellent applications in the field of hydrogenation, they still have technical challenges to overcome when it comes to heterogeneous catalyzes, such as improving catalytic efficiency and maintaining catalyst stability. The catalyst is a core factor in optimizing the hydrogenation of nitroaromatics, whether it is an intermittent reactor for traditional hydrogenation or a microreactor for continuous- flow hydrogenation [14–16]. Couto et al. reviewed the performance of a series of com- mercially available hydrogenation catalysts for nitrobenzene [17]. Although some of these catalysts showed relatively good short-term hydrogenation activity, there remained a pro- portion of catalysts prone to deactivation, as traditional metal catalysts tended to aggregate during application. In the case of microreactors, the packed bed is typically operated for a long time, which makes the catalyst activity and lifetime critical [18–20]. Therefore, there is an urgent need to prepare a highly efficient and stable catalyst for continuous-flow hydrogenation systems. Mesoporous materials are an ideal class of supported materials due to their collapse resistance, large specific surface area, and tunable pore size [21,22]. The large specific surface area facilitates gas adsorption, metal dispersion, and active site exposure, thereby enhancing catalytic activity [23–27]. Liu et al. designed and synthesized a group of ternary Ni–Cr–Al metal oxide composites with an ordered mesoporous structure and tested them for CO methanation to produce synthetic natural gas (SNG) [28]. The optimized ordered mesoporous Ni–Cr–Al catalysts showed better properties of anti-coking and anti-sintering, as well as higher catalytic activity and stability than the traditional Ni catalysts. Xun et al. prepared a group of catalysts of WO3 highly dispersed on mesoporous ZrO2 by hydrothermal treatment and calcination [29]. The obtained 700-C16-WO3/ZrO2 showed excellent catalytic activity in oxidation desulfurization, and the dibenzothiophene in the model oil could be completely oxidized to dibenzothiophene sulfone. Mesoporous materials are thus an important class of catalysts in the field of catalysis and still hold great potential to exploit. In this work, we reported the synthesis of a new hydrogenation catalyst Pd@SBA-15 by an impregnation method that loaded the metal Palladium (Pd) onto the mesoporous material SBA-15 (Figure 1). The active sites and surface area of the mesoporous structure were characterized. The catalyst was then filled into a micro-packed-bed reactor (MPBR) for the continuous-flow hydrogenation of nitroaromatics. The conversion and selectivity of the reactions were optimized, and the stability of the catalyst was also tested. In addition, we also evaluated the scope of this catalysis by varying the functional groups on the nitrobenzene ring.

The design and synthesis of a mesoporous Pd@SBA-15 with highly ordered na- nopores via an impregnation method were reported, as well as its application to hetero- genous catalysis of the hydrogenation of nitroaromatics in a continuous-flow system. The eﬃcient and stable catalytic performances of the mesoporous Pd@SBA-15 should be at- tributed to the Pd nanoparticles not aggregating easily, and hydrogen can easily adsorb to participate in the reaction, which is enabled by structurally stable mesoporous material SBA-15 accompanied by highly ordered nanopore channels. The obtained Pd@SBA-15 showed excellent catalytic performance for the hydrogenation of nitroaromatics to pre- pare aromatic amines, with a conversion of 99% achieved, beyond the traditional bulk Pd/C. This work has important implications for the combination of mesoporous materials and continuous-flow reactions. Although the semi-industrial scale reaction has not been attempted in this study, one of the advantages of the continuous-flow microreactors is the easiness of scale-up due to their smaller scale-up eﬀects compared to intermittent reactors. A simple way of scaling up is to parallelly arrange a number of channels or reactors [55– 57].

The design and synthesis of a mesoporous Pd@SBA-15 with highly ordered nanopores via an impregnation method were reported, as well as its application to heterogenous catalysis of the hydrogenation of nitroaromatics in a continuous-flow system. The efficient and stable catalytic performances of the mesoporous Pd@SBA-15 should be attributed to the Pd nanoparticles not aggregating easily, and hydrogen can easily adsorb to participate in the reaction, which is enabled by structurally stable mesoporous material SBA-15 accompanied by highly ordered nanopore channels. The obtained Pd@SBA-15 showed excellent catalytic performance for the hydrogenation of nitroaromatics to prepare aromatic amines, with a conversion of 99% achieved, beyond the traditional bulk Pd/C. This work has important implications for the combination of mesoporous materials and continuous-flow reactions. Although the semi-industrial scale reaction has not been attempted in this study, one of the advantages of the continuous-flow microreactors is the easiness of scale-up due to their smaller scale-up effects compared to intermittent reactors. A simple way of scaling up is to parallelly arrange a number of channels or reactors [55–57].

a Reaction conditions: substrate (0.1 mol/L), catalyst (Pd@SBA-15, 0.1 g), and back-pressure (0.9 MPa). b The experimental yields were determined by HPLC. c The catalyst was traditional bulk Pd/C (0.1 g).

the value of this hydrogenation system (Table 2, entry 18). After purification by silica gel column chromatography and removal of the solvent, the mass of the isolated product was obtained. Then, the isolated yields and the production rates of the obtained products were calculated and listed in Scheme S1. The molecular structures of all products were further characterized by NMR in the Supporting Information. The above results showed that this continuous-flow catalytic hydrogenation system had good functional group tolerance and was demonstrated to be a practical method for the synthesis of amine products in high yields.

Article Continuous-Flow Hydrogenation of Nitroaromatics in Microreactor with Mesoporous Pd@SBA-15

After demonstrating the substrate compatibility, the stability of this catalyst in the continuous-flow system was further examined. Continuous operation of the hydrogena- tion with Pd@SBA-15 as the catalyst for 24 h at 50 °C, which ensures no overdose of the catalyst. The results show that the yield of aniline remains at around 96% (Figure 4) with no obvious decrease, indicating that Pd@SBA-15 can remain stable for at least 24 h. The ICP-MS analysis shows that the metal Pd is almost absent from the reaction solution after 24 h, indicating that barely any leaching of Pd from the catalyst occurs (Table S1). In addition, the Pd@SBA-15 was analyzed again after 24 h of reaction. The TEM image (Figure S2) shows that the interior of Pd@SBA-15 remains a regular porous structure, and there are no obvious metal particles, which means that the mesoporous structure remains after 24 h of reaction and there is barely any aggregation of metal Pd. The small angle XRD pattern (Figure S3) of Pd@SBA-15 still shows (100), (110), (200), (300), and (220) planes of mesoporous structure at 2θ = 0.99°, 1.61°, 1.85°, 2.42°, and 2.74°, which is consistent with the TEM characterization. Meanwhile, the wide-angle XRD pattern (Figure S4) shows dif- fraction peaks at 2θ value of approximately 23°, which is indexed to amorphous state SiO2, and 2θ = 39.9°, 46.4°, 67.8°, and 81.8°, which are indexed to the (111), (200), (220), and (311) planes of Pd0 (JCPDS Card 00-087-0643) [31]. Moreover, the valence states of the Pd@SBA- 15 are investigated by XPS analysis (Figure S5). The Pd 3d, Si 2p, and O 1s spectrums measured over the catalyst after 24 h of reaction are almost identical to the ones measured

Abstract: The hydrogenation of nitroaromatics to prepare aromatic amines plays a crucial role in the chemical industry. Traditional hydrogenation has the risk of hydrogen leakage from the equipment, and its catalyst has the disadvantage of being easily deactivated and difficult to recover. In this study, we designed an efficient and stable mesoporous catalyst, Pd@SBA-15, which was constructed by impregnating the nanopores of the mesoporous material SBA-15 with palladium nanoparticles. The catalyst was then filled in a micro-packed-bed reactor (MPBR) for continuous flow hydrogenation. The designed continuous flow hydrogenation system has two distinctive features. First, we used mesoporous Pd@SBA-15 instead of the traditional bulk Pd/C as the hydrogenation catalyst, which is more suitable for exposing the active sites of metal Pd and reducing the agglomeration of nanometals. The highly ordered porous structure enhances hydrogen adsorption and thus hydrogenation efficiency. Secondly, the continuous flow system allows for precise detection and control of the reaction process. The highly efficient catalysts do not require complex post-treatment recovery, which continues to operate for 24 h with barely any reduction in activity. Due to the high catalytic activity, the designed mesoporous Pd@SBA-15 showed excellent catalytic performance as a hydrogenation catalyst in a continuous flow system with 99% conversion of nitroaromatics in 1 min. This work provides insights into the rational design of hydrogenation systems in the chemical industry.

The hydrogenation of nitroaromatics to prepare aromatic amines is a crucial reaction in industry widely used in the synthesis of pharmaceuticals, dyes, and cosmetics [1–5]. From an environmental and economic point of view, hydrogen is an optimal choice for hydrogenation reagents [6]. However, traditional intermittent hydrogenation systems present high safety risks, energy consumption, and pollution, such as hydrogen leakage due to heavy operation and high pressure, which are considered incompatible with the concept of green chemistry [7]. Compared with intermittent reactors, continuous flow reactors have unique advantages, including better heat and mass transfer, smaller reaction volume, and smoother reaction conditions, which significantly improve the intrinsic safety of the reactions [8]. Over the past decade, the use of continuous flow reactors in hydrogenation, nitration, and diazotization reactions has become increasingly common [9–11]. Lebl et al. developed a novel type of catalytic static mixer with a rectangular cross-section coated with Pd/Al2O3 [12]. The catalytic static mixers showed excellent catalytic performance in the continuous flow hydrogenation of nitroaromatics and were applied to the synthesis of a key intermediate for the medicine tizanidine. Braun et al. reported a tungsten monocarbide

Data Availability Statement: The data presented in this study are available in [Continuous-Flow Hydrogenation of Nitroaromatics in Microreactor with Mesoporous Pd@SBA-15].