It is well proved that continuous-flow technology oﬀers many advantages over batch methods,7 including precise control of

flow reactor experimental setup. The equipment consists of two peristaltic pumps (P1 and P2, Baoding Longer, China) loaded with tubing connected by a T-mixer (SS316, 1.5 mm i.d.) that was connected to a residence loop (SS316, 3 mm i.d., 5 mm o.d.). The reacting tube was immersed in a thermostat- controlled water bath. The flow rate of water was very high compared to the flow rate of the reactants, which would take the reactor to near isothermal conditions. Nitric acid and sulfuric acid solution were pumped into the reactor. After a residence time (τ) in the reacting tube, the reacting mixture was introduced into the dilution tank, and the reaction was quenched by cold water. Solid product was precipitated, and samples were analyzed by HPLC. The optimization of experimental parameters started with varying residence time (τ) and temperature (T), with 98% sulfuric acid, molar feed ratio of 1:HNO3:H2SO4 (F1:FN:FS) = 1:1.2:2.5, and flow rates of nitric acid and sulfuric acid solutions 11.2 and 60.4 mL/min, respectively. This procedure was greatly facilitated by continuous-flow conditions, and a significant number of runs were conducted rapidly in a sequential manner. For the purpose of high eﬃciency, we hope to shorten the reaction time to less than 1 min. Figure 2 shows the influence of temperature and residence time on nitration. It is known, on the basis of the Arrhenius equation, that the reaction rate increases with increasing temperature. When the reaction temperature was below 45 °C, no dinitration product was detected, and excellent selectivity (over 98%) of mononitration product 2 was obtained along with low conversion rate. As the reaction temperature was raised (higher than 55 °C), conversion of 1 could be completed immediately; however, dinitration product 3 and oxidation product 4 (Figure 3) emerged. At T = 75 °C, the reaction was complete within 15 s, but the selectivity for 2 was only 90% (about 9% of 3, and nearly 0.5% of 4). Based on the above results, for the primary purpose of improving reaction selectivity, we tried changing the acids' dosages at low reaction temperature. The molar feed ratio was

then studied (Table 1) when the flow rate of nitric acid was 11.2 mL/min and the reaction temperature was about 40 °C.

had to be removed by external cooling, thus avoiding overnitration and oxidation side reactions. In the design of a continuous-flow process for 2, our original objectives were to shorten the reaction time and reduce the amount of waste. Isothermal Nitration Process. From the beginning of our investigation, commercial nitric acid (98 wt% HNO3) was selected as the nitrating agent, and a sulfuric acid solution of 1 was prepared in an acid tank. Scheme 2 shows the continuous-

Table 4. Comparison of the Batch Process with Continuous-Flow Processes

stoichiometry, residence time, and temperature, high reprodu- cibility, easy scale-up, and often better reaction yields. The much higher surface area-to-volume ratio under flow conditions renders heat transfer highly eﬃcient. Furthermore, safety hazards in handling exothermic reactions associated with explosive reagents are minimized.8 It is particularly advanta- geous to carry out nitration of aromatics in continuous-flow reactors: the reactor dimensions are smaller, reactant inventory at any given time is less, diﬀusion is much faster, and surface-to- volume ratio is higher, which significantly reduces the possibility of side-product formation and significantly improves the safety. Motivated by these advantages, our group has been committed to the continuous-flow synthesis technology and has reported several practical kilogram-scale continuous-flow processes.9 Herein, we apply this technology to the mono- nitration of 1-methyl-4-(methylsulfonyl)benzene (1) in both isothermal and adiabatic conditions (Scheme 1).

batch isothermal continuous-flow adiabatic continuous-flow

The flow rate of sulfuric acid solution was adjusted to adapt to the molar feed ratio, and the reactor volume was not changed (10 m tube length). The reaction was obviously accelerated when FS/F1 increased, and selectivity was still excellent until the ratio value reached 10 (entries 1−5, Table 1). Shortening the residence time resulted in lower conversion (entries 2 and 3, Table 1). Decreasing FN/F1 aﬀected the conversion rate (entries 6 and 7, Table 1). Due to excellent heat transfer eﬃciency, the reactions were run at accurate temperature, and almost no dinitration or oxidation side reactions occurred in such short residence times. The success with 98 wt% nitric acid and 98 wt% sulfuric acid prompted us to study the influence of another process parameter, i.e., liquid hourly space velocity (LHSV). Studies11

Also, selectivity is not satisfactory due to easy over-nitration or oxidation when reagents and products are both exposed to the reaction conditions over a long residence time.5 And still, the safety risk is not eliminated owing to mass and heat transfer limitations in conventional batch reactors. The great demand for nitroaromatic compounds provides enormous impetus for extensive study of nitration reactions. Recently, one approach complementary to the conventional batch or semi-batch mode is to employ a continuous and selective nitration mode. There are a number of reports of nitration reactions which have been performed under continuous-flow conditions.4,6

Figure 2. Eﬀect of temperature and residence time on nitration when F1:FN:FS = 1:1.2:2.5, and flow rates of nitric acid and sulfuric acid solution were 11.2 and 60.4 mL/min, respectively. Conversion was determined by HPLC.

