where Re for the Heart-type micromixer was estimated based on di­ mensions and velocity at the inlet of the heart shape, dH is equivalent diameter of the microchannel inlet. TFB and mixed acid were used in our experiments as the immiscible liquid−liquid system with the properties shown in Table 1. In this work, the Re of T-microreactor and Heart-type micromixer based on superficial velocities ranged from 8.57 to 85.77 and from 24.66 to 148, respec­ tively. The results show that the flow state in both reactors is laminar. The range of Ca for the conditions studied here varies from 0.006 to 0.067 in the T-microreactor and varies from 0.019 to 0.12 in the Heart type microreactor, which reflects a larger contribution of surface tension to the droplet formation.

and usually require high energy consumption for operation. In contrast to active microreactors, passive microreactors have neither complex dynamic components nor external energy introduction. It mainly relies on optimizing the geometry of microchannels to enhance the mass transfer between liquid-liquid phases at the microscale [24]. Plouffe investigated the mass transfer effect of five different structures of passive microreactors and examined the impact of other two-phase systems and operating conditions on the total volume mass transfer coefficient [25]. The results show that contraction-expansion and obstacle-based micro-mixers are better suited for fast liquid-liquid reactions. Due to the improved transport properties of the microreactor, it is possible to accurately control the reaction process parameters and obtain experi­ mental data on the intrinsic reaction kinetics more efficiently [26]. Song et al. studied the kinetics of 4-MNT nitration using a homogeneous re­ action in the continuous-flow microreactor. The results show that the reaction rate highly depends on the H2SO4 strength and temperature and established a complete kinetic model [27]. Yan et al. provided a comprehensive summary of recent research advances in reaction ki­ netics determined by microreactors [28]. For nitration reactions, rapid heat transfer and precise control of reaction times within seconds facilitate kinetic measurements of fast, highly exothermic reactions. In summary, microreactor technology not only improves the safety and selectivity of chemical synthesis compared to the traditional batch reactors but also significantly increases the process efficiency or product (space-time) yield due to a large number of (internal and external) mass transfer enhancements. However, the synthesis and accurate kinetic data of the nitration reaction of TFB in microreactor systems have not been reported. This work investigated the nitration reaction of TFB in mixed acid. Two microreactor systems and a kinetic model were developed to describe this reaction. The effects of reaction temperature, molar ratio, residence time, sulfuric acid concentration, and volumetric mass trans­ fer coefficient on the conversion were investigated separately. Compared with the batch reactor, a high reaction rate, high conversion rate, and short reaction time were achieved in a Heart-type micromixer.

2.2.1. Nitration of TFB in the T-micromixer The experimental setup of the continuous flow system used in this work was shown in Fig. 1. Solution 1 (TFB) and solution 2 (HNO3/ H2SO4) were fed separately using two high-precision piston pumps (Sanotac-MPF0502C, Shanghai, China; flow rate, 0-100.00 mL/min; pressure range, 0-4 MPa). In order to ensure that the temperature of solutions 1 and 2 was the same as the reaction temperature, it is necessary to reach a preset temperature in a coiled capillary tube 1 m long, respectively. These two streams were mixed in the T-mixer (SST 316L) with a diameter of 3.3 mm. After thorough mixing, the nitration reaction occurred in the subsequent capillary tube (PTFE) with a diameter of 1 mm. The residence time was obtained by changing the flow rate or extending the capillary length. The final mixture was quenched by an aqueous solution via a high-precision piston pump C at the outlet of the microreactor. All capillaries were immersed in a water bath to ensure the same temperature.

Microreactors are becoming an important tool for rapid exothermic chemical reaction process intensification and continuous flow chemistry. This work focuses on the process intensification and kinetics of the tri­ fluoromethylbenzen nitration in microreactors. The reaction of trifluoromethylbenzene with mixed acid is a typical liquid-liquid heterogeneous reaction, so the mass transfer is the rate-determining step. Two strategies of microreaction systems were established to enhance mass transfer, respectively. Firstly, a scheme for intensifying the nitration reaction process in a capillary microreactor was proposed. The results showed that the conversion was low and could not achieve the expected results. Finally, a Heart-type micromixer with barriers was used to improve the mixing and mass transfer performance. The effects of molar ratio, temperature, sulfuric acid con­ centration, flow rate, and residence time on the conversion were investigated. The results showed that the residence time was significantly reduced from 4 hours in the batch reactor to 30 s in the Heart-type micromixer. The volume mass transfer coefficient and space-time yield were up to 0.031 s−1 and 16053.55 g⋅cm−3⋅h−1, respectively. Meanwhile, to better understand and control the nitration reaction process, the kinetics of the nitration of trifluoromethylbenzene was reported for the first time in a capillary microreactor, and all kinetic data were obtained.

Fig. 13 shows the effect of residence time on the conversion. With the increase in residence time, the TFB curve showed a decreasing trend, and the 2-TFNB, 3-TFNB, and 4-TFNB curves showed an increasing trend. Among them, the 3-TFNB curve, which was the main product, increased most significantly. After the residence time reached 20 s, the rise of the 3-TFNB curve decreased because the reaction rate decreased as the nitration reaction proceeded. The water generation in the reaction reduces the nitration capacity of the nitration agent. As the residence time increased, no by-products were generated, which again proved the excellent mass and heat transfer performance of the microreactor.

2.2.2. Nitration of TFB in the Heart-type micromixer The nitration of TFB in the Heart-type micromixer system is shown in Fig. 2 (a). The system consists of a Heart-type micromixer and three high-precision piston pumps. The material of the internal microchannel structure is Hartz alloy. As seen in Fig. 2 (b), a Heart-type micromixer is like a sandwich structure consisting of a heat transfer layer at the top and bottom and a reaction layer in the middle. Unlike capillary micro­ mixers, Heart-type micromixers achieve enhanced mass transfer by adding barriers and U-shaped cylinders inside the microchannels. The internal volume of each microchannel plate is 3 mL. Residence time extension by increasing the number of reaction plates. The temperature control of the reaction system was controlled by the refrigerated/heated circulation unit (GDSZ-50L/-30 ◦C, Zhengzhou Ruihan Instrument Co., Ltd., China) and detected by the temperature sensing probe embedded in the microchannel. The detailed experimental conditions were presented in Supporting Information Figs. S1. S2.

3.1.1. Effect of the residence time, temperature, and H2SO4 concentration on conversion The establishment of the nitration in the T-micromixer system has been described in previous work [32]. The photographs of flow in the

where a is effective interfacial area (m2/m3), ε is phase hold-up, dp is the number-average drop size over the entire plate (m). Under the condition of constant phase content, the interfacial area increases with the decrease in droplet size. Therefore, due to the slow nitration reaction rate of TFB, a longer residence time is required to achieve a higher conversion rate in the T microreactor. However, due to the high mass transfer rate of the microreactor, only a short residence time is required to achieve a high conversion rate, while commercial-scale production can be achieved by increasing the reaction temperature and connecting the reactors in se­ ries while keeping the overall mass transfer coefficient constant.

Fig. 11. Effect of molar ratio on conversion. Temperature = 30 ◦C, the total flow rate = 60 mL/min.

3.4. Comparison of the batch reactor, T-micromixer, and Heart-type micromixer

