diffusion distances provided by the microchip, the group was able to achieve higher conversion with the elimination of the undesired second bisazo-coupling reaction as compared to the batch synthesis. In this study, we utilized a phase transfer catalyst in a liquid– liquid Taylor droplet flow reaction system for the in-situ reac- tive quench of diazonium salts. In this type of flow, the plugs or slugs formed in these reactor systems improve the mixing and mass transfer [24] of reactants involved due to added internal circulation within these fluidic formations as is illustrated below (Figure 2). These plugs or slugs act as mini microreactors existing in a microchannel of a microreactor being employed for the syn- thesis. For the formation of plugs, surface tension between the aqueous phase and disperse phase should be lower than that between the microchannel wall and aqueous phase; basically, the surface chemistry at the liquid–liquid interface plays a huge role in their formation. On the other hand, the formation of slugs is influenced by the surface chemistry between the micro- channel wall and the continuous phase, as well as that between the disperse phase and the latter. Furthermore, microreactors with microchannels having bends and twists to effect chaotic advection have also been found to further intensify mixing [25, 26] in these systems, thus, having the potential to improve reaction output. Looking at the diazotization reaction, instances of decomposi- tion of diazonium salts subsequently causing explosions [27] have been reported. This clearly indicates the adverse effect of this reaction in industry and justifies the need for the generation and in-situ use of these compounds so as to avoid their isolation. The cost of production and quality of the product cannot be overlooked in the synthesis of azo dyes and pigments [28]. This investigative research involved the synthesis of two azo pig- ments (yellow and red pigments) in microreactors where it was demonstrated that scaling out in the microreactors provided better and consistent quality of the pigments as compared to scale up in the batch vessels. A comparison of the scaled out microreactor lab and pilot plants also showed consistent quality in the pigments.

purposes of data as well as statistical analysis, all flow rates were converted to liters/minute.

Table 4. Comparison of microreactor and batch reaction output

Figure 4. Schematic representation of the microreactor setup

MicroreactorRT1 BatchRT2

All chemicals and solvents used were of analytical grade. 2.1. Microreactor Setup. Using three (1 mL) SGE glass syringes and PTFE tubing, reactant solutions A (amine+HCl

solution), B (sodium nitrite solution), and C (coupler+PTC solution) were fed into two T-mixers (Chemtrix T-mixer 3023; reactor volume: 10 μL, width channel size: 300 μm, depth channel: 60 μm, and quench volume: 1.5 μL) joined by PEEK tubing (ID 125 μm). Each T-mixer was equipped with a temper- ature controller unit. The delivery of the reactants was enabled by three Chemyx Fusion 100 syringe pumps (Figure 4). 2.2. Preparation of Reactant Solutions. Solution A (amine +HCl solution): p-Nitroaniline (0.056 g) was dissolved in hot concentrated HCl (15 mL, 0.067 M), and acetonitrile (30 mL) was added to this, after which the solution was made up to a volume of 100 mL with distilled water. Solution B (sodium nitrite solution): Sodium nitrite (0.0603 g) was dissolved in distilled water (50 mL). Solution C (coupler+PTC solution): Diphenylamine (0.035 g) and PTC (sodium dioctyl sulfosuccinate equivalent to primary aryl amine used) were dissolved in chloroform (50 mL). 2.2.1. Microreactor Diazotization and Consequent Phase Transfer Catalyzed Azo-Coupling Reactions. A central com- posite experimental design with a total of 54 experiments was used for this optimization study, where the diazotization of p- nitroaniline and its in-situ phase transfer catalyzed azo-coupling to diphenylamine was used as a general reaction. The experi- ments were performed in a randomized manner. The temper- ature of the diazotization reaction was kept constant at 0 °C while that of the phase transfer catalyzed azo-coupling reaction was varied (Table 1). 2.3. Sample Preparation. The microreactor setup was stabi- lized for 10 min between each experiment. In order to obtain substantial amount of samples for analysis, they were collected

a Amine — flow rate of HCl+amine (p-nitroaniline) solution. b Nitrite — flow rate of sodium nitrite solution. c Coupler — flow rate of coupler (diphenylamine) solution. d PTC eq. — phase transfer catalyst equivalents.

A Facile Optimization of Diazotization and Phase Transfer Catalyzed Azo-Coupling Reactions in Microreactors

