analysis was performed using a Nicolet 6700 instrument (Thermo Scientific) in transmission mode. 4.2. Flow Apparatus. In all microreactor experiments, the sample solutions were mobilized by means of a PHD 22/2000 series syringe pump (Harvard Apparatus, United Kingdom) equip- ped with 500-μL flat tip syringes (Hamilton). Syringes were con- nected to fused silica capillaries (100 μm i.d., 362 μm o.d., Polymicro Technologies) by means of Upchurch Nanoport™ assembly parts (i.e., Nano-Tight™unions and fittings, Upchurch Scientific Inc. USA). During the experiments, the microreactor was placed in a home-built chip holder designed for fitting fused silica fibers into the inlet/outlet chip reservoirs by means of com- mercially available Upchurch Nanoport™assembly parts. The temperature in the microreactor was controlled by interfacing a thermoelectric module with a heat sink to the microreactor. The temperature variation on the glass surface of the microreactor measured with a thermocouple was<±0.1 °C. A glass micro- reactor with a residual volume of 13 μL (dimensions: 150 μm width and 150 μm depth) and one with a residual volume of 0.3 μL (dimensions: 150 μm width and 20 μm depth) were purchased from Micronit Microfluidics. 4.3. Functionalization of Flat Silicon Dioxide Surface and Microreactor. 1,2,2-Trifluoro-2-hydroxy-1-trifluoromethyle- thanesulphonic acid sultone (β-sultone; 1) was grafted on a flat silicon dioxide surface and within a glass microreactor in an analogous procedure as reported in literature [29]. Both the silicon surface and the microreactor were cleaned with a piranha solution (H2SO4:H2O2 3:1) and then copiously rinsed with water and dried with a stream of nitrogen (caution: piranha solution is a very strong oxidant and reacts violently with many organic materials). The cleaned silicon wafers were soaked in a 0.1-M solution of β-sultone (1) in dry toluene and kept for 4 h at 75 °C. For functionalization in the device, the same solution was flowed for 4 h at a flow rate of 0.05 μL/min at 75 °C. Silicon wafers and microchannels were rinsed with dry toluene to remove the unreacted reagent and dried with a stream of nitrogen. 4.4. Catalytic Studies Inside the Microreactor. Benzalde- hyde dimethyl acetal (2; BDMA, 5 mM) and water (10 mM) were dissolved in dry acetonitrile and passed through a 0.3-μL internal volume microreactor kept at room temperature at flow rates from 4 μL/min to 0.250 μL/min. The reaction products were collected and analyzed off-line by GC. 2-Aminobenzophenone (4; 30 μM) and ethyl acetoacetate (5; 60 μM) in dry acetonitrile were passed through a 13-μL internal volume microreactor kept at 70 °C at flow rates varying from 15 μL/min to 1 μL/min. The reaction was monitored by on- line UV, with the outlet of the device connected to the UV flow cell through a back pressure regulator. The conversion curve was obtained by monitoring the disappearing of the 2-aminobenzophe- none 4 absorption at a wavelength of 374 nm. The consumption of the reagent corresponds to the formation of quinoline (6), with no side products being formed. A 15-μM solution of pseudoionone (7) in methylcyclohexane was passed through a 13-μL internal volume reactor at 80 °C at flow rates varying from 15 μL/min to 1 μL/min. The reaction profile was monitored by on-line UV connecting the outlet of the device to a UV flow cell through a back pressure regulator. The conversion profile was determined by disappearance of the reagent absorption at 282 nm.

Figure 1. Schematic representation of the glass microreactors used

Heterogeneous catalysis using microreactors has obtained a great deal of attention in recent years with numerous examples of the anchoring of organic, metal, and enzymatic catalysts inside a microstructured system [1]. Several advantages derive from this strategy, including continuous product formation, simple catalyst separation and its re-use, and less waste. Micro- reactors exhibit large surface-to-volume ratios which, along with an improved heat and mass transfer, offer a huge surface available for functionalization, a key feature in the heterogeni- zation of a chemical process [2–4]. As pointed out by Kirschning et al. [5] already some years ago, organic chemistry is moving towards a new dawn characterized by the use of enabling techni- ques and the quest for new synthetic technology platforms. Thereby, a particular focus is put on the combination of immobi- lized catalysts and continuous-flow processes [6]. In recent years, several examples of flow-through syntheses have been reported utilizing immobilized catalysts. The most used approach is by filling the microstructured reactor with packed columns, usually constituting of a functionalized solid support [7–10], or by using flow-through materials, especially monoliths [11–14]. Although these strategies offer advantages such as increased active surface and wide choice of supports and catalysts, the randomly packed catalytic beds may lead to uncontrolled fluid dynamics, broad residence time distributions, and low selectivity. However, microstructured reactors with a wall catalyst rather than conventional reactors with catalyst pellets offer good control over the reaction conditions [15]. In fact, wall-coated systems have gained increasing attention, with several examples ranging from Au-films [16], enzymes [17], to polymer brushes [18–21]. Another approach involves the use of a nanoparticle-containing catalytic membrane at the laminar flow interface of a microflow reactor [22]. Acid-catalyzed reactions are of great interest in organic syn- thesis, with widespread application in industry. These reactions are mostly performed using strong mineral acids, such as sulfu- ric acid or hydrogen fluoride, which are deployed in a homoge- neous fashion and hence as single use reagents. However, the increasing concerns of environment protection and safety issues have stimulated the development of stable, reusable, and highly active solid acid catalysts [23, 24]. Therefore, efforts have been

Figure 3. Conversion of 2-aminobenzophenone (4; 3 × 10−5 M) in a β-sultone-functionalized microreactor at different residence times (T = 70 °C)

the surface and the sulfonic acid did not affect the stability of the layer. Despite the decrease in activity over time, simple treatment of the microreactor with a fresh solution of β-sultone (1) ensured the recovery of the initial activity and its use for several consec- utive runs. The use of apolar media, as in the cyclization of pseudoio- none (Scheme 4), showed a markedly slow decrease in activity, and the reaction could be run for at least two consecutive days without loss of activity.

Figure 2. Formation of benzaldehyde (3) by hydrolysis of BDMA (2, 5 × 10−3 M) in a β-sultone-functionalized microreactor at different residence times at room temperature

The inner walls of a glass microreactor were functionalized in a one-step procedure with a single layer of a strong perfluoroalkylsulfonic acid. The applicability of the catalytic device was demonstrated in the successful hydrolysis of benzaldehyde dimethyl acetal in acetonitrile, achieving quantitative conversion within a residence time of only 60 s. Furthermore, the catalytic system showed high conversion for the Friedlander quinoline synthesis between 2-amino- benzophenone and ethyl acetoacetate. The cyclization of pseudoionone in methylcyclohexane proved the wide applicability of the acid-functionalized microreactor also for reactions carried out in apolar media. The platform showed activity for 6 h to 2 days, depending on the solvent, and was reactivated by simple treatment with the catalyst precursor. Keywords: microreactor, heterogeneous acid catalysis, catalytic monolayer, Friedlander synthesis, deacetalization

2.2. Sulfonic Acid-Catalyzed Reactions. The sulfonic acid- functionalized microreactor was tested in the deprotection reac- tion of benzaldehyde dimethyl acetal (BDMA 2, Scheme 2) [34]. BDMA and water were dissolved in acetonitrile and flowed through the 0.3-μL device at room temperature. This microreactor gives rise to short residence times (4–72 s) using flow rates ranging from 4 to 0.250 μL/min. The conversion of the reaction at different residence times was followed by gas chromatography (GC), checking the formation of benzaldehyde 3, which was the only product formed. The conversion profile for the formation of benzaldehyde (3) is shown in Figure 2. The system turned out to be highly active in the deprotection reaction, reaching already full conversion in about 60 s of residence time. Assuming a full coverage of the inner surface of the microreactor by β-sultone, a catalyst loading of 0.01 w/w% was calculated. A first order fitting of the experimental data gave a rate constant of (6.3±0.7) × 10−2 s−1. Gill et al. [35] investigated the use of four different sulfonic acid-functionalized silica nanoparticles in the hydrolysis of BDMA. Best results were obtained when a perfluorosulfonic acid catalyst was employed, reaching full conversion within 5 min. Our results demonstrate the enhanced activity provided by the use of a sulfonic acid mono- layer-functionalized microfluidic platform. When a bare microreactor was used without functionaliza- tion, a negligible conversion (<5%) was detected using the same reaction conditions, confirming that the perfluorosulfonic acid groups are responsible for the catalytic activity. Furthermore, the Friedlander annulation of 2-aminobenzo- phenone (4) and ethyl acetoacetate (5) to give quinoline deriv- ative 6 was tested under continuous-flow conditions using the acid-functionalized microreactor (Scheme 3) [36]. 2-Aminobenzophenone (4) was flowed through the 13-μL microreactor with a twofold excess of ethyl acetoacetate (5) in acetonitrile at 70 °C, in order to have residence times of 2–13 min (flow rates in the range of 1–5 μL/min). The course of the reaction

Scheme 1. Functionalization of flat silicon dioxide surface and glass microreactor by β-sultone (1)

