TTIP conc. (mol%) 7.0 1.0–7.0 N2 carrier flow rate 34.0 17.0–68.0 (cm3/min) N2 sheath flow rate 0. 51.0–204.0 (cm3/min) Space time at STP (s) 2.2 1.1–4.4 Reactor temp. (◦C) 500–1000 300–700

Holding the reactor temperature at 700◦C and the TTIP concentration at 1 mol%, the carrier gas flow rate was varied from 17 to 68 cm3/min, while main- taining the ratio of sheath to carrier gas rates at 3.0. The temperature profiles with varying gas flow rates are shown in Figure 10. There exist some temper- ature differences in the transient zone, between the three gas flow rates, but nearly no difference in the isothermal zone. Figure 11 shows that the particle size is insensitive to the variation of the gas rate or the increase of the residence time by a factor of four. This implies that the particle growth was completed within one-fourth of the tube length. A similar result was reported by Kirkbir and Komiyama (1987) who found that the variation of the residence time in the range 3.8–10.2 s had no effect on the particle diame- ter of TiO2 produced from TTIP at 300◦C. In contrast, Akhtar et al. (1991) reported that for TiO2 particles generated by oxidation of TiCl4 in a tubular reactor, particle size increased with increasing residence time

This method provides reliable data in steady state oper- ation. However, it is less satisfactory for very small volumes of precursor and may be too time-consuming for rapid searching of product properties for new mate- rials and varying process conditions. The search can be made more efficient by using small-scale reactors with short run time. An idea is to have a small volume of precursor vapor converted to particles, ideally under conditions of uniform temperature, concentration and residence time. In the present work, a nanoparticle microreactor (NPMR) was developed which can accept a micro- liter of precursor and complete a run within a minute. Figure 1 shows the concept of the microreactor. The liquid precursor is injected into an evaporator, 1 cm3

The nanoparticle microreactor (NPMR) is a new concept that we have introduced to describe a very small-scale system capable of converting an aerosol precursor to solid particles. The liquid precursor of about 1 µl is injected by a syringe through a septum into a tubular evaporator of 1.0 cm3 in volume with stopcocks at both ends. The evaporator has been preheated by a heating tape to a temperature sufficiently high for vaporization to occur in half a minute. By opening the stopcocks, the vaporized precursor is transported by a carrier gas stream into a quartz tube which is mounted along the axis of a tubular furnace. The nanoparticle aggregates produced in the reactor are sampled by deposition on an electron micrograph grid at the reactor exit. The NPMR was applied first to the synthesis of TiO2 particles by thermal decomposition of titanium tetraisopropoxide (TTIP) in a nitrogen carrier gas, with TTIP concentrations varying from 1.0 to 7.0 mol% or 2.35 × 10−6 to 1.65 × 10−5 in TiO2 volume loading, and decomposition temperatures from 300◦C to 1000◦C. Studies were made with a 2 mm reaction tube and a 4 mm tube with sheath gas. With the 2 mm tube, a considerable fraction of the TTIP precursor was consumed at the wall by surface reaction, resulting in very small particles. With the 4 mm tube, the primary particle size was comparable to that reported in the literature for steady flow experiments using a 22.2 mm tube. Primary particle sizes ranged from 200 to 400 nm. Depending on TTIP concentration and reactor temperature, the particles exhibited a bimodal size distribution, probably due to a two-stage nucleation. A fourfold increase in the gas flow rate had little effect on particle size, indicating that particle growth ended early, within one-fourth the tube length. Residence time in the reactor was between 0.35 and 1.4 s, and total run time about 1 min. The NPMR has potential for rapid assem- bly of large databases and is adaptable to combinatorial discovery of nanoparticles with novel properties. Design requirements for an ‘ideal' aerosol microreactor are discussed briefly.

A principal goal of our study was to compare the microreactor data with results for larger scale systems. For this purpose, the primary particle sizes were com- pared with results of Kirkbir and Komiyama (1987) whose tube size was larger, 22.2 mm in diameter, with the precursor vapor supplied steadily to the reactor by bubbling helium through a precursor reservoir. Figure 12 shows the comparison for TTIP concentra- tions near 1.0 mol% with reactor temperatures ranging from 300◦C to 700◦C. The concentration indicated

Evaporator temperature: 152◦C Evaporation time: 30 s Operating pressure: 101.3 kPa

introduced to protect the wall from being coated by surface reaction. The carrier gas flow rate was kept the same as with the 2 mm tube. The sheath gas rate was controlled such that its average linear velocity was the same as that of the TTIP stream leaving the inner 2 mm tube. After a run, no coated zone was seen. After a few more runs, a coated zone became visible indicating that the surface reaction at the wall was not eliminated completely. Kirkbir and Komiyama (1987) reported earlier that a coated zone formed even with a much larger tube, 22 mm in diameter, in the absence of sheath gas. The precursor loss to some extent by surface reaction seems to be unavoidable in laboratory- scale reactors. In the present study, it was difficult to measure the loss because of the small volume of precursor admitted to the reactor. Figure 7 shows the TEM micrographs of parti- cles produced with reactor temperatures varying from

wrapped with a heating coil, and the temperature mon- itored by a thermocouple inserted through the septum. The evaporator was heated to a predetermined temper- ature before evaporation began. To start the evapora- tion, the two stopcocks were closed and the precursor injected by a syringe. By opening the stopcocks simul- taneously, a bolus of the precursor vapor is transported to the reactor by the carrier gas. During evaporation, the carrier gas bypasses the evaporator through the three- way stopcock on the right hand side. The reactor is a quartz tube 45 cm long, mounted along the axis of an electric furnace. Figure 3 shows the two reaction tubes used in our study. In the case of the 2 mm tube, one end is connected to the evaporator and the other end to the particle collector by O-ring ball joints. The distance from the evaporator outlet to the furnace inlet is about 10 cm. For the 4 mm tube with

Nitrogen (99.99%) was passed through the oxygen trap and dryer in series and split into two streams: one to the carrier gas preheater and the other to the sheath gas preheater. The flow rate of each stream was mea- sured by a rotameter before the preheater. The sheath gas flow rate was three times the carrier gas flow rate to keep the linear velocity of each stream the same at the entrance to the reaction tube. The carrier gas was preheated to 170◦C in the preheater and passed through the evaporator with the stopcocks open for about

In aerosol reactor design, the main goal is to produce particles with desired properties – primary particle size, aggregate size, crystalline state and primary par- ticle bond energies. It is generally not possible to predict particle properties from first principles alone, and pilot scale studies and modeling are important in scale-up. We have introduced the concept of a small- scale ‘microreactor' capable of generating particle samples on TEM grids which are easily examined for particle properties. Totestthisconcept,wedesignedaminiaturizedreac- tor capable of producing TiO2 nanoparticles from about 1 µl of TTIP in a 1 min run time. With a 2 mm reac- tion tube, a considerable fraction of the TTIP was con- sumed at the wall by surface reaction, resulting in very small particles. For a 4 mm tube with sheath gas, the surface reaction was reduced and the particle size was comparable to that reported earlier by other investiga- tors for steady flow experiments with a 22.2 mm tube. Increasing the gas flow rate by four times had little effectonparticlesize,implyingthatparticlegrowthhad been completed within one-fourth of the tube length, also in agreement with previous work using a larger reactor. Depending on TTIP concentration and reactor temperature, particles showed a bimodal size distribu- tion probably due to a two-stage nucleation. The microreactor has potential for the rapid assem- bly of large databases and is adaptable to combinato- rial discovery of nanoparticles with novel properties. Results compare well over some ranges with a larger scale reactor. Still much work remains to be done to make the microreactor a reliable tool for predicting par- ticle properties of larger scale systems. Accounting for axial dispersion requires further study. Rapid analysis of TEM grid particle deposits is another challenge.

30 min until the evaporator was purged and heated to 152◦C, 10◦C higher than the saturation temperature at the maximum TTIP concentration of 7 mol%. Then, the stopcocks were closed and a predetermined vol- ume of TTIP was injected into the evaporator by a 1 µl syringe (SGE, Model SG-000500). The TTIP was of ultra high purity (99.999%, Sigma-Aldrich). The vol- ume of TTIP required for a concentration of 7 mol% in the reactor gas flow was 0.7 µl. The concentration was controlled by the injection volume of TTIP. The time to vaporize the TTIP was estimated to be 53 s, assuming that the 1 mm TTIP droplet remaining suspended from the tip of the syringe during the entire period of evaporation. In reality, the drop may fall to the evaporator wall during heating, due to the decrease of surface tension. Based on the estimate, the residence time in the evaporator was varied from 5 to 30 and 60 s, with the reactor temperature at 700◦C. Particle size was smaller with a residence time of 5 s indicating the time is too short for complete vaporization. There was no difference in particle size for residence times between 30 and 60 s; therefore, the evaporation time was kept at 30 s. The stopcocks were opened immediately after evap- oration to transport the TTIP vapor to the reactor which had already been heated to a predetermined temperature. The power to the heating tape wrap- ping the transport line was controlled to maintain the vapor temperature at about 170◦C, well above the

Operating parameter For 2 mm For 4 mm tube tube with sheath gas

with sheath gas entry. Earlier studies of TiO2 from TTIP using tubular reactors have been made by Kirkbir and Komiyama (1987), Okuyama et al. (1986) and Jang and Friedlander (1998). In these studies, however, the reaction tubes were an order of magnitude larger, 13–22.2 mm in diameter, and the precursor was trans- ported to the reactor continuously by a carrier gas bub- bled through a bottle containing liquid TTIP. Another difference is in the concentration of TTIP; in the present studyconcentrationrangedfrom1.0to7.0 mol%,much higher than those of previous studies ranging from 0.00136 to 1.34 mol%. A concentration of 7.0 mol% is in the range typical of silica flame synthesis in indus- trial reactors (Ulrich, 1971); data in commercial reac- tors for TiO2 were not available to us. The production of TiO2 by thermal decomposition of TTIP was exper- imentally validated earlier at a temperature higher than 250◦C (Komiyama et al., 1984). We assume that the solid decomposition product of the present study made at 300–1000◦C is TiO2. In the present paper, the particle size was chosen for discussion, out of various product properties.Theeffectsoftubesize,TTIPconcentration, reactor temperature and residence time on the primary particle size were investigated. The particle sizes were compared with those of Kirkbir and Komiyama (1987), who bubbled helium through the liquid precursor and passed the mixed vapors through a 22.2 mm reaction tube. Our goal was to study the effect of scale and batch vs. continuous operation on product properties.

constant at 700◦C and the carrier gas flow rate at 34 cm3/min. As the concentration was reduced from 7 to 3.5 mol%, the length and the number of the aggre- gates decreased markedly. The chain aggregates finally disappeared as the concentration was further reduced to 1 mol%. The bimodal size distribution has not been reported in previous studies, which were performed at TTIP concentrations much lower than in the present study and with larger reaction tubes. To elucidate the cause of the bimodal distribution, it may be necessary to understand the mechanism by which the decompo- sition occurs. The overall reaction can be repre- sented by Ti(OC3H7)4 = TiO2 + 4C3H6 + 2H2O. However, the reaction mechanism is not well known yet. By analogy to the mechanism of tetraethoxysi- lane (TEOS) decomposition (Satake et al., 1996), we assume that the decomposition of TTIP proceeds as follows by (1) β-hydride elimination of propene and

at a reactor temperature of 1123◦C. They attributed the size increase to an increase in time for coagulation. The reactor temperature of the present study may be too low for coalescence to occur; once the primary par- ticles formed, the residence time had little effect on their size.

for our data is the one at the evaporator. The actual concentration of TTIP in the reaction zone must be lower because the TTIP vapor disperses during trans- port from the evaporator to the reactor and diffuses to the sheath gas layer, on entering the reactor. At present, no quantitative information is available on the concentration decay. Figure 12 shows that our particle sizes were com- parable to the flow reactor data and the dependence of particle size on the temperature was similar, the parti- cle size decreasing with increasing temperature. In the gas-phase synthesis of TiO2 from TTIP or TiCl4, some investigators (Suyama & Kato, 1976; Jang & Jeong, 1995) reported a similar decrease in particle diame- ter with increasing temperature, while other studies (Formenti et al., 1972; Akhtar et al., 1991) showed an increase. By examining the operating temperatures at which those data were obtained, the transition temper- ature was near 1100◦C. At temperatures below 1100◦C, the particle size seems to be controlled by the nucle- ation rate because the temperature is probably too low for significant coalescence of aggregates. Above 1100◦C, coalescence becomes dominant, and the par- ticle size increases with increasing temperature. Sum- marizing, an important factor in the scaling of these systems is the time–temperature history as well as the concentration of the precursor vapor; if these features are similar for different aerosol reactors, the particle size of the product should be similar.

diameter of the primary particles increased with reactor temperature from 9.0 nm at 500◦C to 20.6 nm at 700◦C and 31.7 nm at 1000◦C. Compared to those of Kirkbir and Komiyama (1987), 120 nm at 500◦C and 65 nm at 700◦C, our primary particle size is much smaller even though our TTIP concentration was 10 times higher, andtheeffectofthetemperatureonparticlesizeisinthe opposite direction. We set out to determine the cause of the discrepancy. The TTIP concentration, initially 7 mol% in the evaporator, decreases due to dispersion as the bolus moves from the evaporator to the reactor. By a rough calculation, the dispersion must have affected the parti- cle size to some extent, but was probably not the critical factor causing the discrepancy. After the run, inspec- tion of the wall of the 2 mm tube showed a zone coated with what was probably TiO2. At a reactor tempera- ture of 500◦C, a coated zone 2.2 cm in length formed starting at 1.2 cm from the furnace inlet (Figure 6). The length of coated zone was decreased to 0.7 cm by an increase of the reactor temperature to 700◦C. A considerable portion of the TTIP vapor admitted to the reaction tube probably reacted at the wall, reduc- ing the amount of TTIP available for particle forma- tion. This may be the main reason why our primary particle sizes with the 2 mm reaction tube were much smaller than those of the earlier studies. As the tem- perature increased, the rate of homogeneous reaction in the gas phase increased, and the TTIP loss to the wall decreased, leading to an increase in particle size.

saturation temperature. The operating conditions for the experiments are shown in Table 1. At the exit from the reactor, the particles were col- lected on the carbon film coating a 200 mesh nickel grid (Electron Microscopy Science, Model CF200-Ni), and examined by transmission electron microscopy (JEOL, Model JEM 100CX). The particles were present both as individual primary particles and aggregates. From an image obtained by scanning the TEM micrograph, 70–200 primary particles were selected and their sizes were determined to calculate the number average and Sauter mean diameters using a computer program in which the number of pixels occupied by a particle is countedandconvertedintoadiameter.TheSautermean