parameter optimisation, the solution flow rate was varied in the interval of 30–50 μL min−1 at a constant hydrogen gas flow rate of 10 mL min−1 (STP), which corresponded to super- ficial flow velocities of 2–4 mm s−1 for liquid and 0.75 m s−1

and a hydrogen flow of 10 mL min−1 for 100 hours. Fig. 9 shows that the MBE yield was 93 ± 1.5% with neither deacti- vation nor decrease in selectivity observed. However, there were some fluctuations in the product yield, also observed during the parametric study (Fig. 8). These are likely related to minor fluctuations in the flow rates, the thermostat tem- perature (about ±0.5 K), and the pressure drop in the reactor due to hydrodynamic reasons.53

Interestingly, it can be seen from Fig. 8 that the reaction temperature had a marginal effect on MBY conversion. In particular, the maximum MBE yield was observed at almost the same liquid flow rates of 40.0 and 42.5 μL min−1 at 310 and 335 K, respectively, showing very close apparent reaction rates (Fig. 8). However, an increase in the hydrogenation reaction rate by a factor of 2.5 would be expected at 335 K as compared with 310 K,54,55 which should lead to much higher conversion at a given liquid flow rate. This fact can be explained by a substantial decrease in the hydrogen partial pressure due to solvent evaporation and its diffusion to the gas phase (Fig. 9). The hexane partial pressure at 310 and 335 K, estimated by the Antonie equation, was 0.33 and

A schematic view of the hydrogenation apparatus is shown in Fig. 3. It consists of two mass-flow controllers (Aalborg) for hydrogen and nitrogen (CK gas, 99.999 vol.%), a continuous- flow syringe pump (SyrDos2) connected with a T-joint to the capillary microreactor. The capillary was placed in a temperature-controlled water bath and connected to a sample collector. The residence time in the reactor was estimated by injection of a pulse of octane 10 μL (Alfa Aesar, 99 vol.%) into the T-joint and analysing its concentration at the reactor out- let. At the liquid flow rate of 40 μL min−1, the average resi- dence time was determined by pulsing methylene blue to be 120 s, which agrees with the Lockhart–Martinelli correla- tion.44,45 The semihydrogenation of 2-methyl-3-butyn-2-ol (MBY, Sigma-Aldrich, 98 wt.%) was performed using a 1200 mol m−3 MBY solution in hexane (VWR, 98 wt.%). The reac- tion conditions were optimised in the temperature range from 310 to 335 K, hydrogen flow rate of 10 mL min−1 (STP) and a solution flow rate of 30–50 μL min−1. During the opti- misation, the experimental conditions were set, the system was allowed to reach a steady state within 30–60 min, then 3–5 samples were collected (100 μL) within 3 h of operation. The samples were diluted in a 1 : 10 ratio with hexane and

In heterogeneous catalytic reactions however, the advan- tages of microreactors are offset by the problem of catalyst introduction into the reactor. A convenient laboratory prac- tice to use packed-bed reactors, i.e. fill the microreactor with

A high long term stability is required for industrial appli- cations of the microreactor. The catalyst stability was studied at 335 K using an MBY solution flow rate of 42.5 μL min−1

0.81 bar,56 which corresponds to the hydrogen partial pres- sure of 0.97 and 0.49 bar, respectively. As the hydrogenation is a first order reaction in hydrogen,55 the reaction rate was expected to decrease by a factor of 2.3 with a tempera- ture increase from 310 to 335 K due to dilution of hydrogen with hexane (ESI†). As a result, the increase in intrinsic reaction rate due to higher temperature is balanced by its decrease due to lower hydrogen pressure. No mass transfer limitations were observed. The supporting calculations are provided in ESI.†

Mesoporous metal oxide coatings have many applications in photocatalysis, gas chromatography, electronics and many other areas.1–7 In particular, they play an important role as catalysts or catalyst supports for microfluidic applications where a reaction is performed in a microreactor with the volume smaller than a millilitre. Microreactors have many advantages over traditional large-scale chemical reactors: the small dimensions of microreactors facilitate massand heat- transfer, small reaction volume allows the handling of hazard- ous or expensive chemicals safely and high-pressure reactions to be carried out with inexpensive equipment, hence signifi- cant process intensification is possible with microreactor technology.8–14

stepper motor), which allows deposition from concentrated and viscous sols without channel clogging. A capillary microreactor wall-coated with titania supported Bi-poisoned Pd catalyst was obtained using the

A novel method for the controlled deposition of micrometre- thick mesoporous titania coatings inside long capillary microreactors is proposed. The two main advantages of the method over the conventional static coating procedure are associated with the use of elevated temperature and introduc- tion of the capillary at a constant displacement speed into the oven. Elevated deposition temperature prevents capillary clogging even with concentrated solutions, while the dis- placement speed controls the evaporation rate. This allows very slow solvent removal leading to the formation of uni- form coatings. The coating thickness can be precisely con- trolled and it is proportional to the sol concentration and the internal diameter of the capillary, while textural properties can be adjusted with a surfactant.43 Although only titania coatings were investigated in this work, the method can be extended to the deposition of any thermostable materials, particularly metal oxide sols. The method was applied to coat the inner walls of a capil- lary microreactor (i.d. 0.53 mm, 2.5 m long) with a titania supported Bi-poisoned Pd catalyst. The microreactor demon- strated exceptionally high selectivity in semihydrogenation of MBY with the alkene yield up to 95% and with no observed catalyst deactivation for a time on stream of 100 h. The alkyne hydrogenation performance was significantly higher than for the previously reported capillary microreactors (Table 1). The capillary microreactor produced in this work offers opportunities for further intensive and extensive perfor- mance improvement using high hydrogen pressure, selective microwave catalyst heating, increasing the reactor length and

cannot be achieved by simply changing the solvent. There- fore, the solvent removal from the reactor should be performed under unsteady conditions. Static and dynamic coating methods were developed for chromatographic applications and addressed the problem of solvent evaporation. With dynamic coating, a plug of the pre- cursor solution is pushed through the reactor leaving some solution on the column walls. The solution is later dried by passing excess gas through the capillary. Static coating implies filling the reactor with a precursor solution, closing one end of the capillary and applying vacuum to the other end to facilitate evaporation.34,35 The static coating method offers a simple way of achieving uniform coating synthesis with a thickness that can be adjusted by changing the precur- sor solution concentration.35–37 Other experimental parame- ters such as the evaporation temperature and the pressure should be optimised to slow the evaporation rate required to obtain uniform coatings. However, if thick coatings are to be obtained, the concentration of the precursor solution should be increased. This leads to increased viscosity, greatly limits the range of adjustable parameters, decreases evaporation rate, and significantly raises the probability of plug formation inside the capillaries.36,37 Hence, the preparation of long microreactors with thick catalytic coatings is still a very chal- lenging task. In this work, a novel sol–gel-based method is reported for the synthesis of metal oxide coatings suitable for long capil- lary microreactors. The method is similar to the static coating method, but uses elevated temperature and introduces an additional external parameter, displacement speed, that con- trols the deposition rate. In order to demonstrate the applica- tion of the method in the synthesis of catalytic coatings, the liquid phase semihydrogenation of 2-methyl-3-buyne-2-ol (MBY) to 2-methyl-3-buten-2-ol (MBE) was selected because of the precise reaction control that is needed to stop the reac- tion at the alkene stage and the importance of this reaction in the synthesis of many fine chemicals such as vitamins (A, E), and fragrances (Linalool).38 Traditionally, semihydro- genation reactions are performed in batch reactors with lead- containing Lindlar catalysts, where lead blocks some active sites and affects the adsorption energy of intermediate species, improving the alkene yield.39,40 However, the high toxicity of lead raises environmental concerns and as a result, Bi was used as a doping agent, a notably less toxic metal.41

method and used for the semihydrogenation of 2-methyl-3-butyn-2-ol providing 93 ± 1.5% alkene yield

However, the essential component of these methods, sol- vent evaporation, requires years to remove solvent from a longer (5 m) reactor according to estimations performed using Stefan's equation,33 Fig. 1. As expected, evaporation time decreases at high vapour pressure, i.e. close to the boil- ing point of the solvent, however, the shortest evaporation time observed in the presented parameter range, 1.3 years, is still unacceptably high and requires very tight temperature control. Clearly, a 1000-fold increase in the evaporation rate, which is needed to perform the coating within several hours,

trolled synthesis of micrometre-thick mesoporous TiO2 catalytic coatings on the walls of long channels (>1 m) of capillary microreactors in a single deposition step. The method uses elevated temperature and

Metal oxide sols in high concentrations present many practi- cal problems for the coating process. Firstly, these sols are very viscous non-Newtonian fluids that easily clog the capil- laries on deposition.28 Secondly, the boiling points of metha- nol and butanol of 338 and 390 K, respectively, require a tem- perature above 395 K for complete solvent removal. However, controlled and slow solvent evaporation at high temperature is very difficult due to vigorous solvent boiling. The method reported in this work addresses these problems by using an elevated temperature and pressure as opposed to convention- ally used vacuum-based techniques.34–37 The temperature of the copper guide tubing at the entrance to the oven (Fig. 2) increases linearly from about 350 K (air-cooled side) to the oven temperature. Hence, when the capillary is moving into the oven, its temperature gradually increases leading to the preferential evaporation of the most volatile components in the solution followed by full evaporation. The method offers several adjustable experimental param- eters such as the titania sol concentration, the temperature of the oven and the displacement speed. Aiming for the highest coating thickness, a titania sol with a concentration of 80 g L−1 was used in the parametric study. First, the capil- laries were coated at oven temperatures of 390, 420 and 450 K and a displacement speed of 0.1 mm s−1. At the tem- peratures of 390 and 420 K, the capillaries were clogged by a solid deposit, while at 450 K the deposition process was reproducible and the coating thickness was uniform along the length. The absence of clogging at 450 K might be due to (i) the decreased viscosity at the higher temperature, and importantly, (ii) higher vapour pressure. Because methanol vapour pressure is 14 and 27 bar at 420 and 450 K, respec- tively, the removal of a plug formed inside the capillary is more likely at a higher temperature due to pressure build up. Fig. 4a shows a typical SEM image of the cross-section and the pore size distribution (PSD) of a 250 μm capillary coated with a 4 μm-thick layer of titania obtained in a single deposi- tion stage. A mean pore size of 5.7 nm was observed. The coating consisted of two phases of TiO2: anatase and brookite in a 30/70 ratio according to the PXRD data (Fig. 4b). The crystallite size of the sol was relatively small (5.1 ± 1.8 nm estimated using Williamson–Hall plot) due to high hydrolysis ratio used for sol preparation.43

Catalysis in microreactors allows reactions to be performed in a very small volume, reducing the environmental problems and greatly intensifying the processes through easy pressure control and the

Scanning electron microscopy analysis. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) study was performed using a TM-1000 Hitachi Tabletop Microscope. The capillary was cut into 4 mm sections evenly distributed along the capillary length. These sections were vertically glued on a sample holder. For every capillary, up to 30 individual cross-sections were studied measuring between 10 and 20 positions along the angular direction for analysis of thickness distribution. Pressure drop analysis. The hydrodynamic diameter of the coated capillaries was calculated from the Hagen–Poiseuille equation. In these experiments, ethylene glycol was fed at a desired flow rate in the range of 50 to 300 μL min−1 and the pressure drop was measured with a pressure transducer (Alicat PC100). The viscosity of the ethylene glycol at room temperature was determined using an untreated capillary with a diameter of 250 ± 0.7 μm. The thickness of the coating was calculated as the difference between the initial diameter and the hydraulic diameter of the coated capillary. BET and PXRD measurements. The surface area and pore size distribution of the titania coatings were measured from N2 adsorption–desorption isotherms (Energas, 99.999 vol.%) using a TriStar 3000 micrometrics analyser using standard multipoint BET analysis and BJH pore distribution methods. Prior to nitrogen adsorption, the material was dried in nitro- gen flow at 410 K for 3 h. PXRD patterns were recorded using an Empyrean powder X-ray diffractometer equipped with a monochromatic Kα-Cu X-ray source in the 2θ range 20–80°, step size 0.039° and step time 180 s. The patterns obtained were analysed using PANalytical Highscore Plus software.

for hydrogen. Reynolds numbers were below 5 showing lami- nar liquid and gas flows. Image analysis showed that a slug- annular flow regime was realised.46,47

the particles of supported catalysts, is possible in micro- reactors. However, great care should be taken to ensure that the catalyst particles do not block the channels and that mass and heat transfer limitations do not apply.15–18 A slurry of catalyst nanoparticles can be introduced into a flow reac- tor to overcome the problems of clogging and mass-transfer, but this approach creates a problem of catalyst separation from the product at the end of the reaction.19 Hence, the most convenient way of performing catalytic reactions in flow systems is to coat the reactor walls with a catalyst. The coat- ing can be done by grafting the reactor walls with meta- llorganic molecules, but this approach requires very expen- sive chemicals and complex synthesis procedures.20 A more common approach is the deposition of metallic catalysts supported on oxide materials. There are well-developed methods of introduction of catalytically active metal nano- particles into oxide matrixes, but subsequent deposition of the matrix uniformly on the reactor walls is still a very chal- lenging task, especially for concentrated sols and long reactors.21–23

are in good agreement (considering standard deviation of the experimental data indicated as confidence intervals in the plot), which indicates that a uniform coating was obtained with the absence of plugs or necks, where the pressure drop was expected to be the highest. For capillaries with smaller internal diameters, solid plugs are likely to be formed due to capillary forces,28 but the coat- ing method reported can be applied to coat capillaries with larger diameters. For a given TiO2 precursor concentration, the coating thickness is proportional to the internal diameter of the capillary (Fig. 7) allowing one to obtain coating thick- ness above 10 μm in the tubes about 1 mm in diameter in a single deposition step.

