The microreaction technology has been widely applied in nitration, as well as other fast and highly exothermic reactions (Kulkarni, 2014; Li et al., 2018; Liu et al., 2023; Zhan et al., 2023). As the core equipment of the technology, microreactors exhibit significantly improved mass and heat transfer performance over conventional reactors, thanks to their small characteristic size (typically hundreds of micrometers) and large specific surface area (typically between 1,000 and 10 000 m2/m3, which is 1 to 2 orders of magnitude larger than that of conventional reactors). The excellent performance guarantees rapid fluid mixing and instant removal of reaction heat (Jensen, 2017; Wang et al., 2017; Yao et al., 2018). In this way, the product selectivity can be significantly elevated (Li et al., 2017). In addition, the smaller liquid hold-up volume in microreactors facilitates intrinsic safety. Recent applications of micro­ reactors for toluene nitration are summarized in Table 1 (Fu et al., 2022; Song et al., 2022d; Yang et al., 2022). By analysis, it was found that the process conditions for obtaining simultaneously high toluene conversion and MNT selectivity with reference to DNT were generally either low temperature with high sulfuric acid strength or high temperature with low sulfuric acid strength. Under these operating conditions, the order of isomer distribution of MNT is generally 2-NT>4-NT>3-NT. And, we

The advantages of the microreactor also make it an efficient platform

Keywords: Heterogeneous nitration Toluene Microreactors Reaction regime Kinetics

M molecular weight, g/mol MNT mononitrotoluene n mole N HNO3 Q the volumetric flow, mL/min R gas constant, J/mol/K ReM Mean Reynolds number of two phase S selectivity, % Sc Schmidt number of sulfuric acid phase Sh Sherwood number T reaction temperature, oC v flow velocity, cm/s vm the molecular volume at normal boiling point, m3/mol VR the volume of the coiled capillary microreactors, mL w mass fraction x mole fraction X conversion of toluene, % Y yield, %

It is critical for reactor design and process safety to determine the reaction kinetics for toluene nitration. Herein, a continuous-flow platform based on capillary microreactors was established. First, reaction regimes for toluene nitration and its consecutive side reaction (MNT (mononitrotoluene) nitration) were identified. On this basis, the influence of process parameters on conversion of toluene, selectivity of MNT and DNT (dinitrotoluene) and their isomer distribution were meticulously examined, including molar ratio of reactants, sulfuric acid strength, re­ action temperature, and residence time. Subsequently, reaction kinetic models coupled with mass transfer were developed, allowing the simultaneous kinetic determination for toluene nitration and MNT nitration. It was found that the logarithm of the observed kinetic constant is proportional to the sulfuric acid strength. The kinetic parameters under 72.7 to 80.1 wt% sulfuric acid strengths were obtained. The outcomes provide a basis for process intensification and optimization of toluene nitration as well as other similar aromatics.

acid strength and molar ratio of HNO3 to toluene, allowing the reaction to be continued, but this significantly increased the burden of waste acid disposal. All in all, the existing process development for toluene nitra­ tion in microreactors is mainly focused on process parameter optimi­ zation and lacks fundamental studies on the heterogeneous reaction regime of toluene nitration in microreactors and the kinetics with coupled mass transfer.

A pre-exponential factor, L/mol/s c molar concentration, mol/L d droplet size, mm di the inner diameters of the microchanne, mm D diffusivity, m2/s DNT dinitrotoluene Ea activation energy, kJ/mol f the relative mass correction factor Ha Hatta number Ii the distributions of the isomers of MNT and DNT k second-order reaction rate constants, L/mol/s kL mass transfer coefficient, m/s

Table 1 Recent studies on nitration of toluene in microreactors.

Heterogeneous toluene nitration with mixed acid in microreactors: Reaction regime, characteristics and kinetic models

Nitroaromatic compounds are vital organic intermediates exten­ sively utilized in various industries, including dyes, perfumes, pharma­ ceuticals, explosives, and pesticides (Kulkarni, 2014; Patel et al., 2021). Mononitrotoluene (MNT) is one of the most representative nitro­ aromatic compounds. In industry, MNT is produced by the mononitra­ tion of toluene with mixed acid as the nitrating agent. As shown in Scheme 1, the product MNT includes three isomers, which can be further nitrated to dinitrotoluene (DNT, mainly 2,4-DNT and 2,6-DNT). Furthermore, the reaction is strongly exothermic with a reaction enthalpy of up to 150 kJ/mol (Chen et al., 2008; Wang et al., 2023). To control the product selectivity and process safety, it is usually carried out in multistage continuous stirred tank reactors with an effective heat transfer area typically in the range of 100 to 1000 m2/m3, where the mixed acid is slowly dripped into toluene (D'Angelo et al., 2003). There is an inherent high risk of safety issues due to long reaction time and large reactor volume. In addition, the uneven temperature/concentra­ tion distribution resulting from poor heat/mass transfer can lead to the formation of considerable amount of DNT and phenols, which increases the cost and waste disposal during product refinery (Afonso et al., 2018).

