Based on the study in the submillimeter microreactor, the experiments were scaled up to a pilot continuous flow platform (di = 4 mm) with a temperature measuring device. Using the optimum conditions in the microchannel, the oil bath temperature was set at 30 °C, the sulfuric acid strength was set at 74%, and the molar ratio was 1.2. When the inner diameter of the reactor was enlarged from 0.8 mm to 4 mm, the mass and heat transfer performance would undoubtedly decrease.34,35 In this condition, the volumetric flow rate began to affect the reaction greatly. To investigate this effect, the flow rate was set at 16 mL·min−1, 32 mL·min−1, 48 mL·min−1, and 64 mL·min−1, respectively. The residence time was maintained unchanged at 2 min by using different numbers of modules. And the temperature profile under different volumetric flow rates was recorded by the real-time temperature monitoring device. The temperature profile under different volumetric flow rates is demonstrated in Figure 9. Thermocouples 1 and 2 indicate the temperature of two preheating modules, and 3, 4, 5, and 6, respectively, indicate the outlet temperature of the reaction module 1, 2, 3, 4. Due to the limitation of the thermostat, it is difficult to maintain at 30 °C for the oil during the whole process. Hence, the temperature of the oil bath fluctuated slightly during the experiment. Especially the third and fourth reaction modules are relatively far from the oil bath machine, and their temperature fluctuations were relatively larger than the front as shown in Figure 9b. As demonstrated in Figure 9a, for the nitration of naphthalene, the highest temperature always appeared in the first reaction module. And with the increase in volumetric flow rate, the highest temperature measured was 36.17 °C, 37.98

increased with the increase in reaction temperature, so the reaction conversion increased. At the same time, the longer the residence time, the greater the influence caused by axial dispersion and the situation of secondary mixing, which was challenging to take into account in the quick assessment. Without considering the radial heat transfer and inlet effect, the highest temperature increase along the reaction channel was only 3.78 °C, and there was almost no overtemperature, which was consistent with the high yield and extremely low dinitration result under the optimal reaction conditions. 3.3. Scale-up of the Microreactor and Compare It with the Batch Reactor. 3.3.1. Reaction in the Mesoscale Flow Reactor. Continuous flow reactor scale-up is mainly achieved through two aspects: numbering-up and sizing-up.33

where h represents the convective heat transfer coefficient in the microreactor, b represents the wall thickness, and λ represents the thermal conductivity coefficient of the channel wall. The channel is made of PTFE in this work, and its thermal conductivity is 0.26 W·m−1·K−1. And dm represents the average of the pipe's inner and outer diameters. To simplify the calculation, the outer wall temperature was regarded as constant. In this case, Nu = 3.66, the convective heat transfer coefficient h can be calculated by eq 6.

reached 100%, the selectivity of 1-nitronaphthalene reached 86.85%, and the products of 2-nitronaphthalene and dinitration accounted for 4.30% and 8.86% of the total products, respectively. For a traditional laboratory-scale batch reactor, the total volumetric mass transfer coefficient of a liquid−liquid heterogeneous system ranges from 0.001 to 0.02 s−1.39 However, in the microreactor, the surface area is large, the contact area between the two phases is significantly increased, and the interface refresh frequency is high, which makes the overall mass transfer coefficient of the microreactor 2−3 orders of magnitude larger than that of the traditional tank reactor, usually in the range of 0.05−15 s−1.40 At the low mass transfer coefficient, the relatively high yield was due to the low sulfuric acid strength and the reaction setting temperature, so the dinitration occurred less. However, compared with the performance in the microreactor under the same conditions, the selectivity of 2-nitronaphthalene was close to that of continuous flow mode at 50 °C, and the selectivity of dinitration products was much greater than that of continuous flow mode. This is because the whole dosing process of the semibatch reaction was almost all in the state of overtemperature 15 °C. And for the batch reactor, the mass transfer capacity was challenging to meet the mass transfer demand when the reaction rate was relatively fast, the reaction may be subject to mass transfer control for a longer time, and more 1-nitronaphthalene reacted with nitric acid to produce dinitronaphthalene. 3.3.3. Comparison of Flow and Batch Reactor. Table 1 shows a comparison between the batch reactor and the mesoscale flow reactor. For the semibatch reaction, to make sure that the reaction was complete, the whole reaction process was up to 80 min. Even if the holding time was removed, the dosing time reached 40 min. While in continuous flow reaction, the same conversion and a higher selectivity could be achieved within

Figure 11. Influence of volumetric flow rates on reaction (a) conversion and selectivity of main product and (b) selectivity of byproduct.

Mixed acid nitration of aromatic compounds is widely used to produce a series of essential intermediates such as drugs, dyes, explosives, and pesticides.1,2 However, most nitration processes are fast and highly exothermic, with the heat of the reaction ranging from −73 to −253 kJ·mol−1.3 Many of the products have thermal decomposition characteristics, which is quite dangerous.4,5 As one of the important intermediates, 1- nitronaphthalene is currently produced through the nitration of naphthalene using a mixed acid in the batch reactor. Considering the safety issues during the reaction process, the reaction is usually performed by slowly dropping the mixed acid into the organic substrate, which makes the production less efficient. Therefore, it is necessary to improve the production efficiency and reaction safety through process enhancement. Flow chemistry, as a process enhancement technology, has attracted increasing attention in the chemical and pharma- ceutical industries in recent years.6 The continuous flow microreactor with a smaller characteristic size and larger specific surface area is considered an excellent tool for performing such fast and exothermic reactions due to enhanced mixing and heat transfer capacity.7−10 A smaller liquid holdup is conducive to the inherent safety which can operate more efficiently and safely under much harsher conditions.11,12 The residence time in the microreactor can be precisely controlled, which provides a basis for the kinetic study of those rapid reactions. In recent years, many researchers have successfully realized nitration process enhancement, combining various needs of aromatic nitration and the advantage of microreactors.13 Burns et al.14

ABSTRACT: In this work, the continuous flow nitration of naphthalene to 1-nitronaphthalene was systematically studied from the microreactor to mesoscale flow reactor and the safety issues during the reaction process were investigated. The effect of the molar ratio of nitric acid to naphthalene, residence time, reaction temperature, and sulfuric acid strength on the reaction process was comprehensively investigated in the microreactor. Under optimal conditions, the reaction yield could reach 94.96%. Due to the rapid exothermic characteristics of nitration, a quick heat transfer assessment was proposed to obtain the temperature profile during optimal conditions. It was found that the maximum overtemperature during the reaction was only 3.78 °C, which was consistent with the high yield under the optimal conditions. Then a scale-up of the microreactor to production was realized by a dimension- enlarging strategy. In the mesoscale flow reactor, the influence of volumetric flow rates was investigated. The annual output of the flow reactor could reach 2643 kg·a−1 while the highest overtemperature inside the reactor channel well exceeded 17.1 °C. In addition, a conventional semibatch experiment was carried out in the batch calorimeter RC1e to explore the reaction's exothermic characteristics. Finally, the performances of the two reactors were compared, showing that the continuous flow reactor had more advantages than the batch reactor in economic benefit and inherent safety. KEYWORDS: nitration, 1-nitronaphthalene, flow chemistry, scale up, heat transfer assessment

Figure 9. (a) Effect of volumetric flow rates on temperature and (b) Temperature stabilization process at a volume flow rate of 64 mL·min−1.

benzene, showing that slug flow within the microreactor can provide enough effective interfacial area for fast liquid−liquid heterogeneous reaction. Su et al.15 performed nitration of o- nitrotoluene in the packed microreactor. Due to the out- standing dispersion and mass transfer capacity of the packed microreactor, the conversion of nitrotoluene reached up to 94% even when the reaction was less than 3 s. Yu et al.16

2.2. Experimental Setup. The experimental setup is demonstrated in Figure 1a. The organic phase was formed by dissolving 0.1 mol of naphthalene in 0.4 mol of dichloroethane. And the aqueous phase was a mixture of water, sulfuric acid, and nitric acid. The organic phase and the aqueous phase were injected through two syringe pumps, respectively. First, the two phases were reacted in a T-shaped mixer made of stainless steel. The main reaction and common side reactions are shown in Figure 1b. Then the mixed liquid reacted in a Teflon microchannel with an inner diameter di = 0.8 mm and an outer diameter do= 1.6 mm. All the channels were immersed in an oil bath to obtain a uniform reaction temperature. The total volumetric flow rate of the mixed fluid was maintained at 3 mL·min−1, and the residence time was regulated by changing the channel length. The molar ratio was controlled by the volumetric flow rate ratio of the two phases. The reaction product from the outlet of the reactor channel was immediately quenched with an ice−water bath. Then the reaction product was quickly separated and washed. HPLC was used to analyze the product. The mesoscale flow reactor platform is depicted in Figure 2.

