Fig. 5. Flow patterns at different flow rates at the outlet of the static mixer of the microreactor. T = 20 °C; 20% wt. HNO3, 60% wt. H2SO4. Q = Qorganic = Qmixed acid. In each row are shown significant frames at the reported flow rate. Channel dimension = 1000 μm.

The qualitative preliminary results presented in Section 3.2 were confirmed by the analytical results. In all the previously reported ni- trations in microreactos [11], although the observed reaction rate was found to increase in microreactors, there is no direct proof that the adopted devices are working under kinetic control. A few more detailed studies [43,44] carried out using simple tubular section reactors, quasi- kinetic regime is suggested to be achieved at LHSV values higher than 2000 h−1, corresponding to very low residence times and, hence, to relatively high values of flow rates. A comparison between perfor- mances of a lab-scale batch reactor and a continuous flow microreactor with embedded static mixer at varying flow-rate is reported in Fig. 6, in terms of benzaldehyde conversion and nitrobenzaldehydes yields at a fixed reaction time/residence time (τ). There was no significant difference in the products partition under all the investigated conditions, which suggests a good mixing within each of the phases. However, a significantly different benzaldehyde conversion was observed. As expected, higher conversion is achieved at higher flow rates, even though always lower than in a lab-scale batch reactor under kinetic regime. Performances very similar to those at- tained under kinetic control of the reaction were achieved at a flow rate of 1.25 mL/min. It must be noted that in the scaled-up batch reactors, mixing conditions that allow to reach kinetic control of a reaction are very unlikely and, in most cases, impossible to be achieved. Therefore, the results suggest that well-designed microreactors with embedded static mixers can achieve targets similar to those achieved under kinetic regime, which is a further process intensification in combination with the previously reported benefits in terms of yield and selectivity [21] and the advantage of using meso-scale reactors, which provide high productivity. It must be stressed that the significant enhancement of mass transfer between the phases allows to attain the theoretical limit of conversion/yield at the shortest residence time. In order to prove this point, experimental runs were carried out using higher flow rates up to 10 mL∙min−1, and the results were compared with those predicted by the batch model for the same reaction time. Harsher conditions, that are highly acidic media, were used to carry out experiments at higher flow rates to achieve high conversion at short residence times. As an ex- ample, an experimental benzaldehyde conversion of 97% was achieved in the microreactor adopting the following conditions: Qtot = 9.22 mL∙min−1, Qmixed acid/Qorganic = 4.94, T = 25 °C, [HNO3] = 6.03 mol∙L−1, [H2SO4] = 12.09 mol∙L−1. In the same con- ditions, benzaldehyde conversion of 99% was predicted by the model for the batch reactor under kinetic regime. Therefore, the kinetic model developed in Section 3.1 can be a useful tool to predict products partition and maximum achievable

Fig. 6. The comparison between the performances of small-scale batch reactor and microreactor with embedded static mixer at different flow rates. T = 35 °C; [HNO3] = 5.0 mol∙L−1, [H2SO4] = 10.4 mol∙L−1; τ = 3.6 min.

productivity [23]. For these reasons, this technology naturally suits the requirements of nitration processes, especially for manufacture of ex- pensive and low-volume materials. As a result, most nitrations reported in the literature were carried out in microreactors with diameters ranging from hundreds of micrometers to a few millimiters, the latter combining the advantages of micro-scale reactor with higher pro- ductivities. As a result, several examples of nitration in microreactors can be found in the literature [1,11,21,24–30]. However, typical lab- scale setups consist of of preheating channels connected to separate pumps to feed organics and nitrating mixtures to a mixing device [25–27,31]. Innovative devices have embedded mixers and heat ex- changer to reduce the experimental complexity and achieve higher compactness. Most of the reported processes are carried out in capillary microreactors, under heterogeneous liquid-liquid conditions, with the formation of slugs of organic and acidic aqueous phase. As a general result, increasing the flow rate, an enhancement of mass transfer be- tween the slugs is reported, which is corroborated by CFD calculations [24]. However, meso-scale continuous flow microreactors, as the one adopted in the present investigation, are still poorly investigated, de- spite the promising results in terms of enhanced productivity. Even though the flow pattern of immiscible liquids in micro-channels has been widely investigated, the results are often reported for simple geometries of the open micro-channel [24,32,33], whereas only a few studies were reported for complex static mixers structures in the reactor [34]. In microchannels with constant internal section, different flow patterns were observed as a result of the competition between shear forces and surface tension. They can be summarized as threading, jet- ting, dripping, tubing and displacement [35] and they can be related to the capillary dimensionless number, which is related to the ratio be- tween viscous forces and interfacial tension. In the case of passive embedded mixing, the channel of the reactor is internally shaped to continuously mix the phases in order to enhance mass transfer and, as a result, increase the observed reaction rate using a ribbon like structure with contractions, expansions, and obstacles. In this work, we in- vestigate for the first time benzaldehyde nitration in such a commer- cially available and scaled-up compact system highlighting the possi- bility to achieve outstanding performances, close the ones under kinetic regime, without the adoption of active micro-mixer devices and starting from relatively low flow rates. The observations were supported by the kinetic model validated in the first part of the work.

According to Taminu et al. [41], for two immiscible phases the most common flow patterns are parallel flow, segmented flow, annular flow and dispersed flow. It is worth noting that for channels without em- bedded static mixer, the transition between the different regimes is determined by variations of about one order of magnitude in the flow rate [42]. Preliminary images collected at the outlet of a liquid-liquid micro- reactor with embedded static mixer are reported in Fig. 5 at different flow rates, but similar reaction times. In Fig. 5, in each row are reported

and analyzed by HPLC. It was experimentally impossible to sample the two phases separately. Continuous flow experiments were carried out in a commercially available microreactor (Little Things Factory XXL-ST-04) with em- bedded static mixer. The experimental setup was already described elsewhere [21], and a scheme of the reactor is reproduced for con- venience in the Supporting Information. Specifically, the microreactor channel is internally shaped to continuously mix the phases. In other words, the embedded static mixer consists of a holding line embedded in the reactor to create local turbulence and mixing along the length of the channel. The internal cross-section of the reactor is square (l = 2.2 mm), partially occupied by the mixer holding line (V = 8.0 mL, L = 3.0 m), Fig. 1. Reagents were separately fed by means of syringe pumps, samples were collected at the outlet of the reactor, quenched and diluted as previously described and analyzed by HPLC. Each experimental run was carried out in triplicate. To collect microscopy images, a glass Micronit microchip (1000 × 50 μm) was connected to the outlet of the microreactor and placed under an inverted, transmittion light microscop (Axio 100,

Heterogeneous benzaldehyde nitration in batch and continuous flow microreactor

conversion in well-designed microreactor devices.

• Benzaldehyde nitration kinetic model was extended under heterogeneous conditions. • Batch and continuous flow reactor performances were compared. • Enhancement of mass transfer was observed in continuous flow static mixer. • Well designed microreactors can ap- proximate kinetic regime behaviour.

three representative frames at a fixed flow rate. The aim of this pre- liminary investigation is to show that significantly different flow pat- terns can be achieved in microreactors as the one adopted in this in- vestigation, even for small changes in the flow rate. The result is relevant if one considers that using tubular reactors at the same flow rates only parallel flow or slugs were observed in the literature de- pending on the internal diameter of the channels [11,43,44]. As shown, a threading stable flow pattern is observed, under the adopted conditions, at a flow rate of 20 μL∙min−1 with a liquid core formation of the organic phase surrounded by the aqueous acidic phase, Fig. 5a. Increasing the flow rate, the organic thread becomes thinner with the occasional formation of big organic droplets with diameters comparable with the internal diameter of the channel, Fig. 5b. The thread thinning is enhanced at higher flow rates with the first occa- sional instability of the organic thread observed at 60 μL∙min−1, under the adopted conditions, Fig. 5c. The instability is associated with the formation of a large number of smaller droplets. An increasingly marked instability effects is observed at 80 μL∙min−1 with the occa- sional reformation of an unstable organic thread. Two unstable threads are finally observed at 100 μL∙min−1. As already reported, as a general qualitative result, the mass transfer between the phases is enhanced at higher flow rates. However, it must be noted that, as a result of the presence of an embedded static mixer, small increments in the flow rate can result in completely different flow patterns with a higher predicted conversion.

