3.1. Operating Conditions in the Coaxial Capillary Micro- reactor. In the microreactor, it is crucial that experiments be executed in a uniform droplet flow regime. Therefore, flow patterns in the coaxial microreactor were investigated first. The results are shown in Figure 4. Three regimes were identified: dripping flow, slug flow, and a transitional region, when the flow rates of BA monomer and the continuous water phase were in the ranges 550 and 50800 μL/min, respectively. Stable uniform droplet flow could be formed in a wide range of flow rates when the flow rate of BA monomer was in the range 550 μL/min. In the following sections, all the experiments were carried out in this dripping flow regime.

Figure 5. Reproducibility of product's conversion, Mn, and PDI in microreactor. Oil bath temperature, 100 C; length of the capillary in oil bath, 2 m; AIBN concentration, 0.8%; flow ratio, Qd(μL/min)/ Qc(μL/min), 15/400, 10/200, and 5/130, from left to right.

In recent years, microreactor technology has been thoroughly studied and applied to various chemical reaction processes.4,5

weight distribution. However, since the slugs were in close contact with the channel wall, flowing resistance increases significantly as the polymerization proceeds, potentially resulting in clogging problems. Besides, taking advantage of the precise control over reaction time and heat transfer eﬃciency oﬀered by a micro- reactor, Lorber et al.20,21 proposed a microfluidic-based approach to monitor the kinetics of free radical polymerization. In the past two decades, micro devices with various geometries including shear flowing, cross flowing, hydrodynamic focusing, and coflowing have been developed for laboratory or industrial use.22 A coaxial micro device, as one kind of coflowing micro devices, has shown good convenience and reliability in control- ling flow patterns such as drop flow, slug flow, and colaminar flow.23,24 It has been successfully used to synthesize materials with some specific configurations, including spherical25,26 or rodlike microparticles,27 Janus particles,28 ternary particles,29

Figure 2. Outline of experimental procedure in microreactor.

Reducing the characteristic size of the reactor to the micrometer or submicrometer scale brings about a series of advantages such as a uniform flowing state, high heat and mass transfer eﬃ- ciencies, andfastmixingwithinmilliseconds.68Microreactorshave already successfully been used in many diﬀerent fields including organic synthesis,9 crystallization, and precipitation.10,11 Microreac- tors have also been applied to various polymerization processes including radical polymerization,12 ionic polymerization,13,14 photo- polymerization,15 and copolymerization.16 Thus we can take advantage of the unique characteristics of the microreactor to potentially overcome the aforementioned drawbacks of free radical polymerization.

that the reproducibility in conversion, Mn, and PDI of the product is quite good. In the stirred container, the size of the droplet was widely distributed (Figure 6a), and droplet coalescence posed a serious problem (Figure 6b). Thus, the local reaction conditions of BA polymerization, including temperature, were hardly uniform. In some regions, localized high temperatures may have led to instantaneous polymerization, generating polymers with shorter chain length as well as branched polymers and hence further contributing to a wider molecular weight distribution. 3.3. Temperature Profile in the Coaxial Capillary Micro- reactor. The local reaction temperature in the droplet for a suspension polymerization method is a critical factor influencing the BA polymerization process. CFD simulation can help calculate the temperature profile and its variance as the polymerization proceeds. Considering the uniform drop flow in a coaxial capillary microreaction, a single droplet model was proposed. In our experi- ments, the flow velocity in the capillary is rather slow (on the order of 0.01m/s).Furthermore,becausetheBAdropletisflowingalongwith the continuous phase and there is no conspicuous relative velocity along the axis of the tube length, heat transfer only takes place between the droplet and the specific volume of water that encom- passes it. Based on these facts, as well as for the purpose of simplifying the simulation, hydrodynamics were not considered in the model. The transient state governing equations, including coupled partial differential equations resulting from heat transfer (conduction) and mass transfer (diffusion and chemical reactions), are

microreactor

Figure 1. Scheme of coaxial capillary microreactor.

3.2. Comparison of Coaxial Capillary Microreactor and a Stirred Container. Polymerization of BA was carried out in the coaxial capillary microreactor and stirred container under identical experimental conditions. Table 1 shows the experimental results. Comparing the polymer properties (PDI and Mn) obtained in the microreactor with those obtained in the stirred container at approximately the same conversion level, it can be seen that the PDI in the microreactor is much lower and the Mn is much larger. As for the reasons responsible for lower PDI in the microreactor, there are two. First, in the microreactor the polymerization units are highly uniform, and product properties will be the same for each individual droplet. In the micoreactor, the BA droplet was dispersed in the continuous phase in a highly uniform manner, while in the stirred container, the droplet size was widely variable, as seen in Figure 6a. Second, the heat transfer efficiency is high enough to avoid heat accumulation in droplets during polymer- ization. The latter assumption will be further justified by the CFD simulation shown below. The reduced average molecular weight in the macroreactor could be explained by an autoacceleration phenomenon. As a highly exothermic and thermally initiated free radial reaction, there exists an autoacceleration phenomenon in the BA polymerization process due to strong coupling between reaction and transport phenomena. Once the heat removal becomes insuﬃcient, reaction temperature increases sharply. As a consequence, this sudden rise in temperature furtheracceleratestheoverallrateofpolymerizationaswellastherate of heat release. In addition, the termination rate is reduced due to a diﬀusion limitation brought about by an increase in viscosity, and hence a gel eﬀect takes place. Both the above factors lead to faster decomposition of initiator and result in polymers with shorter chains (smaller average molecular weight). The reproducibility of polymerization in the microreactor was also investigated by repeating experiments under identical con- ditions. As shown in Figure 5, the experimental results indicate

