at the center. Therefore, TPP droplets were added away from the center while modeling. The microreactor model consists of two separate inlets (ϕ 0.5 mm) to allow the flow of chitosan and TPP leading to a circular chamber (ϕ1 mm) containing the magnetic actuator (length 0.5 mm). The circular chamber has single outlet (ϕ 0.5 mm). The magnetic needle induced maximum confluence of fluids entering from inlets due to stirring. At the microscale, diﬀusion is a dominant mechanism whereby two diﬀerent fluids come together and mix. The microreactor model assumes steady state, laminar, and incompressible flow, governed by continuity, Navier−Stokes, and species transport by con- vection−diﬀusion. Simulations were carried out with variation in rotation speed as well as time and the results are analyzed with respect to mixing eﬃciency calculated using the formula given below32

into the chamber where mixing was initiated. Microfluidic properties such as flow rate and the reactant ratio determined the quality of synthesized CNPs. TPP and chitosan were mixed in the chamber to form nanoparticles that flowed through the outlet, therefore reducing the chances of clogging. Conditions for CNPs synthesis was similar to that used conventionally. To translate the process to the micromixer platform, at constant chitosan concentration of 0.5 mg/mL, we optimized the flow rate from 100 to 500 μL/min (Figure 3b). As the flow rate increased, the particle size decreased with 1.8 fold reduction in standard deviation (Figure 3b). At a flow rate of 500 μL/min, the channel at the outlet ruptured because of the high pressure. Hence, a flow rate of 400 μL/min was optimized where the channels sustained the pressure and yielded 154 ± 20 nm sized CNPs with 0.24E8 particles/mL (Figure 3b). Further, to increase the number of particles, the reactant concentration was varied (0.1−0.5 mg/mL) at optimized flow rate 400 μL/min (Figure 3c). Because the specific flow rate maintained, concentration and diﬀusion coeﬃcient of the total reaction volume was constant, resulting in homogeneous particle size. At lower reactant concentration (0.1 mg/mL), smaller NPs (80 ± 9 nm) with lower number of particles (0.52 E8particles/ml), whereas at higher reactant concentrations (0.5 mg/mL), a higher number of particles (2.36E8 particles/mL) with larger size (212 ± 10 nm) were formed. At chitosan and TPP concentrations of 0.4 and 0.16 mg/mL, respectively, the obtained particle size was to the tune of 130 ± 9 nm. The number of particles in the preparation was 2.1 × 108/mL with a zeta potential of 39.8 ± 5 mV (Figure 3c). In the conventional synthesis, significantly larger (more than 50%) particles with lower zeta potential were obtained. The standard deviation is also very less with microreactor method implying homogeneity in particle synthesis. Therefore, CNPs synthesized with 400 μL/min flow rate and 0.4 mg/mL chitosan concentration were used for drug loading and assessment of antifungal activity against Candida. The same protocol could be extended for the batch synthesis of drug loaded chitosan nanoparticles with good homogeneity in particle size (Details are given in Figure S2). 4.3. Comparison of Conventional and Microreactor- Based Synthesis of Chitosan Nanoparticles. Zeta potential determination of chitosan nanoparticles synthesized conven- tionally exhibited a charge of +29 ± 6 mV, whereas that by microreactor method were higher +40 ± 8 mV. This result implied an increase in the colloidal stability of the particles. Atomic force and transmission electron microscopic analysis confirmed the sizes for bulk and microreactor synthesized CNPs as ∼250 and ∼130 nm, respectively (Figure 4). CNPs synthesized by microreactor were smooth (confirmed by RMS value of <0.1 from AFM), spherical and homogeneous in size,

Figure 1c, d shows the velocity profiles (indicative) obtained from 2D simulation of conventional and active microreactor models. As compared to the conventional model, microreactor achieves better mixing due large force generated with greater velocity, at similar operating parameters. The concentration profile (Figure 1e, f), shows uniform mixing of the liquid in microreactor as compared to an unmixed gradient observed in the conventional model, at the same time interval. Figure 1g, h shows an increase in mixing eﬃciency with rpm. In the first few seconds, the mixing eﬃciency drops drastically for both conventional and microreactor before attaining saturation. As the rotor applies confluence, the liquid is taken to diﬀerent parts of the chamber decreasing the mixing eﬃciency in the initial stage. The eﬃciency obtained for microreactor is much higher as compared to the conventional technique, with a maximum of ∼90% in 30 s. These models were validated experimentally by using blue and yellow colored liquids. The mixed liquid was collected from the outlet at diﬀerent time points from the microreactor and was withdrawn with a pipet from the conventional setup. The droplets were placed on a paraﬃn wax film, and photographs were captured using a digital camera (Cannon). The images were analyzed by ImageJ

software for green intensity. Readings were normalized using a premixed green color as control, and mixing eﬃciency was calculated in percentage. It can be seen from Figure 1i, j that mixing eﬃciency of the microreactor is greater than that of the conventional at same time points. Moreover, mixing eﬃciency increases as a function of time and rotational speed complying with the result of the simulation studies. The maximum eﬃciency obtained from microreactor is ∼80% that is in good agreement with simulation data (∼90%). There is a distinct diﬀerence between mixing by the conventional and microreactor setup. One reactant is added dropwise to another (liquid bath) at diﬀerent time points conventionally whereas the continuous fluid flow is obtained by mixing in a microreactor. Equilibrium is reached faster in conventional setup resulting in a drop in the diﬀusion coeﬃcient and Reynolds number leading to laminar flow like condition, which restricts further mixing. On the other hand, because of continuous flow in the microreactor and flow out through the outlets, fresh volumes of two fluids enter the chamber and mix, leading to higher mixing eﬃciency. From the theoretical analysis, it is important to note that the increment in eﬃciency is significant in the first few seconds of stirring (Figure 1g, h), saturating exponentially as time increases. This observation implies that the microreactor achieves eﬃcient mixing within a few seconds of contact of the two liquids. It is evident that the rise in rpm above 1000 did not have a significant impact on the mixing eﬃciency. Hence, all the further experiments were carried out at the rotational speed of 1000 rpm. With a single reactor, the mixing eﬃciency of ∼80% was achieved. To enhance the eﬃciency and to promote synthesis of nanoparticles with uniform size, we added another reaction chamber (Figure 2a, c). A third stage of the reaction chamber and an inlet channel (Figure 2b, d) was added for loading the drug on synthesized chitosan nano- particles. The magnetic needle was fabricated in a rhombic shape (Figure 2e) to have maximum confluence while mixing in a microreactor.

3.1. Chip and Micro Magnetic Needle Fabrication. Micro- reactor with circular channels and chamber was fabricated from poly(dimethylsiloxane) (PDMS)33 using soft lithography (Supple- mentary). The chip was fabricated with 2 inlet channels, (ϕ 500 μm)

Figure 1. 2D simulation of conventional and microreactor using Comsol multiphysics 4.4. (a, b) Schematic of 2D models used for simulating conventional and active microreactor. (c, d) Velocity profile; (e, f) concentration of the mixed liquid obtained; (g, h) mixing eﬃciency calculated from the simulation and (i, j) experimentally derived mixing eﬃciency for conventional and microreactor.

Understanding the dynamics of conventional and micromixing was important for fabrication of a microreactor for the synthesis of CNPs by ionic gelation. Therefore, classical and microreactor setup using single reaction chamber were modeled and analyzed using Comsol Multiphysics 4.4. Conventionaland microreactor simulation models in 2D geometry are shown in Figure 1a, b. For a conventional model, a liquid bath (ϕ25 mm) containing chitosan solution is considered with a submerged magnetic needle (length 1 cm) for mixing. While mixing, the needle rests at the bottom of the vessel, which creates a vortex and practically no mixing occurs

5. CONCLUSION The simulation studies carried out showed better mixing in the case or microreactor as fresh reagents come in contact due to flow rate dependency, which is not the case in the conventional setup. The initial time (in ms) for the formation of particles is significant, as seen from the theoretical analysis. As the microreactor is operated at high flow rate, synthesized nanoparticles flow out, decreasing the hold time of the reactants in the chamber, leading to lower size and homogeneity of preparation. The microreactor yields nano- particles of size 130 ± 9 nm with 39.8 ± 5 mV surface charge, whereas 250 ± 27 nm size and 29.8 ± 8 mV charge was obtained by conventional method. The microreactor by virtue of its measured volume interactions allowed high drug (amphotericin) entrapment that displayed a slow sustained release. In vitro, CNP-AmB yielded eﬀective fungicidal eﬀect against Candida albicans, demonstrating good hemo-compati- bility. The microreactor can also be used in a batch mode for the synthesis of a large amount of homogeneous particles without variation in size and charge. ■ASSOCIATED CONTENT * S Supporting Information The Supporting Information is available free of charge on the ACS Publications website at DOI: 10.1021/acsami.5b05100. Methodology for conventional synthesis. Batch synthesis using microreactor for scale up; eﬀect of bare drug and loaded drug-nanoparticle complex on Candida using Live−Dead staining and AFM (PDF) ■AUTHOR INFORMATION Corresponding Authors *E-mail: vandanaghormade@aripune.org. Tel: +912025325000. *E-mail: dsbodas@aripune.org. *E-mail: kpaknikar@gmail.com Author Contributions V.G. and D.B. planned and designed experiments and cowrote the paper. K.M.P. provided intellectual inputs. D.B. carried out the theoretical analysis and helped in characterization and analysis of results. I.M. carried out conventional method. V.K. fabricated the chip and carried out synthesis using microreactor method. Notes The authors declare no competing financial interest.

4.2. Microreactor Method. In the microreactor, micro- channels were used to carry chitosan and TPP simultaneously

selection of cross-linker and molecular weight of chitosan failed to yield homogeneous particles.11,18,20 Other approaches employing ultrasonication and radiation amplitude were investigated for their role in decreasing the size and polydispersity without much eﬀect.21 Recently, "microfluidic drifting" a methodology of 3D fluid manipulation in a single monolith layer, has been introduced.22−26 The optimal operational parameters were predicted by mathematical modeling and geometric design of the inlet holes and channels of the device. The designs were fine-tuned for the flow of the polymer and the cross-linker in to a reaction chamber and subsequent collection of the synthesized nanoparticles at the outlet. Microfluidic synthesis oﬀers the controlled movement of reactants and their interaction in a precise volume to yield monodisperse nanoparticles. Usually, researchers employ a passive route of synthesis of nanoparticle using microfluidics, where scaling eﬀects confine the fluid dynamics to a laminar regime with characteristic low Reynolds number (Re). Passive mixing faces drawbacks in terms of slow rate and low eﬃciency of mixing.27 Hence, active micromixers that disturb the laminar flow to realize mixing have great potential.28 Active mechanisms increase the interfacial area between two fluids by complex flow pattern and facilitate mixing primarily by chaotic advection and by diﬀusion. Active microreactors demonstrate faster mixing in

