Figure 2. (a) Images of Ta8ylor flow regime upfront of the packed bed microreactor used in this work. (b) Flow regimes of gas-liquid flow in a microreactor channel modified from.[25]

Figure 2(a) shows images of the Taylor flow that passes to the packed bed microreactor used in this work at different liquid

flow rates with a fixed gas flow rate. Figure 2(b) shows a flow regime map for gas-liquid flow in a microchannel reactor with an emphasis on the Taylor flow regime. Before performing the catalytic experiments, a study was carried out to define the upper and lower flow rates to maintain the Taylor flow regime before the feed reaches the catalyst bed. Maintaining a stable flow regime was essential to get reproducible catalyst testing results.

Figure 1 shows the loaded Pd@UiO-66 reactor connected in the experimental set-up. The H2 gas flow was controlled using a mass flow controller (Bronkhorst). The phenylacetylene solution flow was controlled by a syringe pump (KF Technology). Phenylacetylene 99.9% (Aldrich Chemical Company) was used and diluted with methanol solvent 99.9% (Aldrich Chemical Company) to reach the target concentration. The gas and liquid feed are mixed before feeding into the packed-bed micro- reactor. The microreactor was immersed in a water bath and placed over a hot plate heater to control the reaction temper- ature. The pressure was regulated with a back-pressure regulator connected to the gas outlet line. A gas-liquid gravity separator was used to separate the unreacted H2 from the liquid stream. The collected liquid was analyzed using GC-FID autosampler to identify the formation of concentration of phenylacetylene (PA), styrene (ST), and ethylbenzene (EB). The phenylacetylene conversion (XPA, %) is calculated as shown in Equation (1) and

While selective hydrogenation has been successfully con- ducted in microreactors with controlled conversion and selectivity using homogeneous catalysts or heterogeneous catalysts in the form of beads, extrudates, or catalyst-coated channel walls, packed-bed powder catalyst testing in micro- reactors for multiphase flow remains least explored in the literature.[49–54]

advanced catalytic applications can be achieved like electro- catalysis, photocatalysis and tandem catalysis.[14,15] However, the vast array of MOFs necessitates a rapid and efficient method for screening and identifying promising catalysts. Most MOF catalyst testing is currently performed in batch or semi-batch stirred reactors due to their operational simplicity and suitability for testing catalysts available in limited quantities.[16] However, flow reactors offer distinct advantages over batch systems for catalyst testing.[17,18] Microreactors, in particular, have emerged as powerful tools for laboratory experimentation, requiring only milligram quantities of catalysts and enabling rapid and precise screening of various conditions, thus facilitating early-stage exploration studies.[19] Although loading catalysts as powders in fixed packed beds is a straightforward option in microreactors, it poses challenges such as pressure drop limitations and uneven flow distribution.[20,21] Addressing these challenges through additive manufacturing or catalyst coating on channel walls is less viable for early-stage exploration due to the need for substantial material quantities to optimize synthesis recipes, thus making packed bed microreactors the preferred option. While catalyst testing in packed-bed reactors with diameters larger than 4 mm is well-established, significant differences in testing results are observed in reactors with smaller channel diameters, particularly micro-packed-bed reactors, especially in multiphase flow systems.[22–24] Among various flow regimes in microreactors, Taylor flow stands out due to its well-controlled interface, enhanced mixing and heating, and minimized back

This study aims to address two main objectives. Firstly, to evaluate an approach for testing catalysts available only at gram scale or less for demanding multiphase gas-liquid-solid reactions in a flow reactor system. Secondly, to demonstrate the potential and capability of MOF-based catalysts for selective hydrogenation in a gas-liquid-solid reactor. Specifically, a packed-bed microreactor operated under a gas-liquid Taylor flow regime is employed for the selective hydrogenation of phenylacetylene to styrene, utilizing UiO-66 containing Pd NPs embedded in the pores as the catalyst. The study explores the operating window and requirements for packing MOF catalysts in the microreactor, with a focus on maintaining Taylor flow for reproducible results. The reaction performance is evaluated under various liquid flow rates, temperatures, and pressures, including long-time on-stream testing to check catalyst stabil- ity.

Packed-Bed Microreactor Under Taylor Flow for MOFs Catalyst Testing Demonstrated on Phenylacetylene Hydrogenation

