Fig. 1 Schematic illustration of the flow-type microreactor containing immobilised glutaminase–mesoporous silica (SBA) composite parti- cles: (a) flow channel geometry of microreactor (top view) and (b) side view of the microreactor. See also Fig. S1 (ESI†) for a detailed build process of the microreactor and a characterisation of the microflow channel.

channel of the microreactor by a combination of diﬀerential interference contrast and fluorescence

Enzymatic reactions in batch and microreactor

The development of microscale reaction technologies, such as microreactors, for use in the elds of enzyme and biological engineering has recently attracted considerable attention because of the many potential industrial applications for these technologies.1,2 The advantage of using a puried, immobilised enzyme-based microreactor for biocatalytic reactions over using macro scale systems with immobilised cells is that the enzyme- immobilised microreactor facilitates the precise control of the reaction temperature to increase the reaction eﬃciency and reduce the reaction time.3–6 The selective and stable but reversible immobilisation of an enzyme on a solid support provides a reusable, continuous reaction system and oﬀers a promising approach for use in industrial production processes.7

temperature. In addition to this advantage of the microreaction system, the microreactor enabled the on-oﬀregulation of enzymatic activity during continuous theanine synthesis by controlling the reaction

where c0(glutamine) is the initial glutamine concentration (20 mM), c(theanine) is the theanine concentration aer the g-glutamyl transfer reaction. In order to assess the ow system, the glutamine–ethylamine reaction solution was added to the ow channel containing the immobilised enzyme. The substrate solution (20 mM gluta- mine–100 mM ethylamine) was passed through the reactor at 5 or 10 mL min1, and the theanine synthesis by the immobilised glutaminase was carried out at various reaction temperatures (4, 10, 20, 30, 40, and 50 C) and pH of substrate solutions (pH 4 and 10). Recovery of product solution from the outlet of the ow channel commenced aer an initial 300 mL pre-delivery delay of substrate solution using a syringe pump to reach the steady- state ow in the microreactor. In cases where the entire microreactor system, including substrate supply, the main unit of the reactor, and the product collection area, were heated (total heating), the temperature in the system was controlled using an air heat-type incubator (MIR-154; SANYO Electric Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan). In cases where the main unit of the reactor within the microreactor system was locally heated (local heat- ing), the temperature in the main reactor was controlled by temperature control units (Stage top incubator, INU-ONICS; Tokai Hit Co., Ltd., Shizuoka, Japan), while both the substrate supply and the product collection area were kept at 4 C, using the air incubator mentioned above (Fig. S2, ESI†). Temperatures were made to alternate between 4 C and 30 C during the continuous microow reaction by powering the temperature control units equipped with the microreactor oﬀor on, respectively. The pH values were made to alternate between pH 4 and 10 by changing the pH of the delivery solution. Aer the initial 300 mL pre-delivery, the substrate solutions were passed through the microreactor for 20 straight assays without

A flow-type microreactor containing composite materials of a theanine synthetase (glutaminase) and

The proposed design of the polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS)/glass microreactor containing the glutaminase–mesoporous silica (SBA-15) composite particles is shown schematically in Fig. 1. The SBA particles were immobilised over the entire surface of both sides of the slit in the microreactor, that is, the top and bottom of the ow channel, as follows. A glass substrate (width: 52 mm, length: 76 mm, thickness: 1 mm; Matsunami Glass Ind., Ltd, Osaka, Japan) was used as the base material to fabricate the ow channel of the microreactor. To immobilise SBA particles, the glass surface of the ow channel (Fig. 1a; width: 5 mm, length: 250 mm, depth: 0.2 mm), fabricated by etching the glass substrate, was coated with a thin layer of liquid PDMS prepolymer (SILPOT 184; Dow Corning Toray Co.,

Synthesis of amino acid using a flow-type microreactor containing enzyme–mesoporous silica microsphere composites†

When the eﬀect of conversion to L-theanine on residence time was examined, an increase in conversion in proportion to the residence times was conrmed. A similar tendency was observed with both the glutaminase–SBA23.6 composite-xed microreactor and the glutaminase–TMPS10.6 composite-xed microreactor, indicating that the performance of the current enzymatic microreactor was equivalent to that of the prototype microreactor despite the non-chemical surface modication of the pores (Fig. S4, ESI†). This increased conversion in the new enzyme microreactor was due to both the improved micro- channel length and the optimised pore size of the silica support for reagent-free, stable enzyme immobilisation. Moreover, we could terminate the theanine production completely by rapid cooling to the vicinity of 0 C, resulting in temporary oﬀ-

