influence of inter-phase mass transfer resistance on chemical reaction is less important, inadequate mixing may still have a significant impact on the reaction rate. Therefore, to be more effective for ideal mixing, more fully understanding on the reaction kinetics and more accurate reaction kinetics model, the conversion rate variation of PA with different flow rates was investigated, as shown in Fig. 4. The conversion profiles under the three tested flow rates were nearly identical, indicating that increasing the flow rate beyond 1.5 mL/min did not lead to significant

improvements in mixing efficiency. Within the given reaction time, if the conversion increases with increasing flow rate, it indicates that mass transfer controls the reaction kinetics. Conversely, if the conversion no longer continues to increase, it suggests that mass transfer effects are eliminated [20]. As shown in the Fig. 4, with increasing flow rate, the conversion of PA remained relatively stable, indicating that mass transfer had very little influence on the conversion, which implies that an ideal mixing state was achieved and the reaction outcome was solely controlled by reaction kinetics. Therefore, the total flow rate of 1.5 mL/ min was adopted for all subsequent experiments to ensure the reaction remained under kinetic control. The corresponding residence times of 2.5 min, 5 min, and 7.5 min,10 min and 15 min were achieved in the capillary microreactors with lengths of 5 m, 10 m, 15 m, 20 m and 30 m, respectively.

The total volume flow rate of the reaction tube QT (mL/min) is calculated by Eq. (1):

The influence of the two-phase flow rate ratio on both reaction performance and flow characteristics inside the microreactor was investigated by fixing the total flow rate at 1.5 mL/min and varying the proportion of the aqueous (Phase B) to the organic (Phase A) phase. The corresponding results are shown in Fig. 3, it could be seen that PA conversion and gem-DBE yield are comparatively lower at the flow rate ratio of 2:1 (QB/QA). This is because when the proportion of the aqueous phase is too high, MeCN, as a co-solvent, is insufficient to simulta- neously stabilize the hydrophobic CBr4, PA and the strongly polar aqueous phase, accordingly bringing about the fluid stratification within the microreactor and forming a heterogeneous system, which thereby results in a lower reaction rate. Conversely, as the flow rate of the organic phase increases (the flow rate ratio reaches 1:1), the proportion of MeCN in the solution increases, and its ability to act as a co-solvent enhances. Through hydrogen bonding, the fluids could mix rapidly and form a homogeneous system [39]. Concurrently, the PA conversion and gem-DBE yield would be increased. However, when the proportion of the organic phase is further increased to 1:2 ratio, although a ho- mogeneity system could be still maintained, the DBE yield would decrease slightly. This slight decrease is likely because the high con- centration of K₂S₂O₈ approaches its solubility limit, potentially reducing the effective oxidant concentration and thus the reaction efficiency. Consequently, the subsequent experiments were performed at a 1:1 aqueous-to-organic phase flow rate ratio to ensure reaction system to be homogeneous.

The 3D response surface plots for yield and space-time yield (STY) are illustrated in Fig. 9. A detailed analysis of these plots reveals a remarkable discrepancy between the optimal conditions for maximizing yield and STY. Especially, the highest yield is attained at residence times exceeding 10 min, whereas the maximum STY is predominantly observed at shorter residence times, approximately 5 min. Additionally, compared to the molar ratios of NK₂S₂O₈/NPA and NCBr₄/NPA, both tem- perature and residence time demonstrate a more substantial impact on the yield and STY of gem-DBE.

where QA (mL/min) and QB (mL/min) are the volume flow rate of the A and B phase, respectively.

In this study, the microreactor achieved 76.15 % yield within 5 min using only one-third of the K₂S₂O₈, comparable to the 78 % yield ob- tained after 4 h in batch [11]. In the study of batch conducted by Wang et al. [10], although the yield was improved, the reaction time was as long as 24 or even 48 h, resulting in a quite low space-time yield. Comparatively, the microreactor enhances process efficiency through superior transport properties and precise control of residence time, thereby providing optimal conditions for the rapid inherent kinetics.

In recent years, flow chemistry technique has gradually developed into an effective approach to deal with these challenges [12]. Contin- uous flow microreactor, characterized by short diffusion distances and high specific surface areas, could significantly expand the interfacial contact between liquid phases, improve mass and heat transfer perfor- mance, according achieving enhanced product quality, reaction effi- ciency and safety [13], which has gained widespread application in fine chemical fields, including pharmaceuticals, pesticides, and dyes/pig- ments. For instance, reactions such as hydrogenation [14], oxidation [15], nitrification [16] and polymerization [17] have implemented effective, green and safe production processes through micro-reaction continuous flow technology. In addition, the continuous flow micro reaction system could precisely control the reaction temperature and residence time, realize uniform mixture of the reactants, thereby establishing a reliable platform for kinetic studies [18,19]. In particular, recent advancement in microreactor technology has facilitated the highly selective, efficient and continuous synthesis of free radical re- actions, as well as effective measurement of the reaction kinetics. Zhang et al. [20] tackled the issues of low mass and heat transfer efficiency and poor safety for the oxidative radical reaction of cyclohexane in tradi- tional reactors, they constructed a high-temperature and high-pressure gas-liquid micro-reaction platform, measured the reaction kinetics pa- rameters, and achieved 85 % selectivity of the target product within a residence time of 370 s, greatly improving the reaction efficiency. Similarly, Ma et al. [21] conducted the photobromination radical reac- tion of oximes in a photomicroreactor. Compared to the conventional batch system, the flow process significantly suppresses by-product for- mation through enhanced mass transfer and precise reaction control. Experimental results were employed to establish a kinetic model that could guide the process scale-up in industry. Moreover, for liquid-liquid heterogeneous reaction, micro-reaction technology could also greatly reduce the impact of mass transfer limitations on heterogeneous rapid reaction [22]. Yan et al. [23] investigated the dehydrochlorination re- action of β -chloroalcohol (CHPDA) in a microreactor. By increasing the concentration of NaOH (to 40 wt%) to enhance the concentration gradient and reducing simultaneously the interfacial tension, the effi- ciency of liquid-liquid heterogeneous mass transfer was improved, the reaction time was shortened to 2.7 min (1/20 of that in a traditional reactor), and the hydrolysis of by-products was inhibited markedly, thereby improving the process safety and scalability. Moreover, an ac- curate kinetic model was obtained by dissolving CHPDA into ethanol to construct a homogeneous system. As be well known, the reaction kinetic model is of irreplaceable importance for reactor design, industrial scale up and the understanding of reaction mechanism [24–26]. However, the study on the gem-dibromoenones reaction kinetics remains still scarce up to now.

In addition, the space–time yield (STY) is an important indicator for evaluating the production capacity in a flow chemistry system. Gener- ally, the space-time yield could be calculated:

The continuous flow synthesis, process optimization and reaction kinetic of gem-DBE were investigated systematically. A homogeneous reaction system was established by adjusting the two-phase flow rate ratio, and EPR was employed to identify and quantify the free radicals during the reaction process, the plausible reaction pathway was pro- posed accordingly. Subsequently, the influences of NK₂S₂O₈ /NPA, reaction temperature, reactant ratio (NCBr4/NPA) and residence time on the yield and selectivity of the target product gem-DBE were studied. Multi response RSM was employed to simultaneously maximize both prod- uct yield and space-time yield. Under the optimized reaction conditions, an average yield of 76.15 % and an STY of 1.09 mol⋅L−1⋅h−1 were achieved. This integrated strategy offers a viable pathway toward in- dustrial implementation by effectively balancing the inherent trade-off between reaction efficiency and production yield. Furthermore, a ki- netic study of the reaction was performed, and the kinetic parameters were obtained for various K₂S₂O₈ concentrations. The results indicated that the activation energy of the side reaction was higher than that of the main reaction, indicating that lower reaction temperatures favor enhancing selectivity toward the main product. The apparent reaction rate constants for both main and side reactions increased with the in- crease of K₂S₂O₈ concentration. Compared to batch reactor, the micro- channel reactor dramatically increases space-time yield through enhanced mass transfer and precise control. The reaction mechanism was found to follow a free radical pathway, and the attained kinetic model exhibits considerably good agreement with the experimental data.

The microreaction system setup is shown in Fig. 1, it consists of two plunger pumps and pre-treatment coiled capillaries, a microreactor, a T type micromixer and a back pressure valve. Using plunger pumps (JJRZ 02004F, Hangzhou Jingjin Technology Co., Ltd.), both solutions were delivered independently and preheated to the desired reaction temper- ature in the preheated capillary coil (poly tetrafluoroethylene PTFE, inner diameter of 1 mm, length of 2 m). Subsequently, the two streams were then combined via a T-type micromixer (PTFE) and flowed into a capillary coil (PTFE, the inner diameter of 1 mm) for reaction. The residence time was controlled by adjusting the coil length. To maintain isothermal condition, all capillaries were spirally wound and submerged in a constant-temperature oil bath. For all experiments, the temperature of the liquid at both the inlet and outlet of the reaction channel was monitored with a thermocouple thermometer (YET-640, Kaipusen). The readings indicated that the temperatures matched the oil bath setting and remained stable, with all fluctuations confined to within ±1.0 ◦C,

3.5. Comparison of the reaction in the microreactor and the batch reactor

optimization was conducted using the Desirability Function approach with equal weighting assigned to both objectives [51]. The resulting optimal conditions for maximizing yield, maximizing STY, and their balanced compromise are summarized in Table 5. The multi-objective optimum successfully mitigates the conflict between the optimal oper- ating conditions for gem-DBE yield and STY as shown in Fig. 9. To assess the accuracy of the predicted condition, three repeated experiments were conducted under the condition, the average yield of 76.15 % and a STY of 1.09 mol⋅L−1⋅h−1, which validates the predicted optimal condi- tion. This integrated strategy provides a viable pathway toward indus- trial implementation by effectively balancing the inherent conflict between reaction efficiency and production yield, offering a systematic framework for optimizing continuous-flow processes where multiple performance metrics need to be considered.

efficiency and selectivity of the reaction. Especially, all these reactions are typically conducted in batch reactors at present, the inherent limi- tations of batch reactors, such as insufficient internal mixing, low mass and heat transfer efficiencies, considerably negatively inhabiting overall production performance. Consequently, developing a synthetic process with high efficiency and selectivity and systematically understanding its reaction kinetics characteristics are the key foundation and necessary prerequisite for improving the synthetic efficiency and practicality in the production of such drug intermediates.

To resolve the trade-off between yield and STY, a multi-response

responses for both yield and STY, are summarized in Table S1 of the Supplementary Material.

The reaction was conducted in a mixed solvent system of H2O and MeCN. According to the research of Yan et al. [23], when the two sol- vents are miscible, a homogeneous system would be formed in a microreactor. As H2O and MeCN are miscible in any proportion, hence, a homogeneous reaction system could be formed under an appropriate two-phase flow rate ratio, thereby mitigating the influence of the mass transfer process on the reaction, and enabling the accurate determina- tion of intrinsic kinetic parameters, which is crucial for process intensification.

gem-Dibromoenones are key precursor for the synthesis of heterocyclic compounds, which have extensive ap- plications in drug development, pesticide synthesis and materials science. In this study, the continuous synthesis of gem-dibromoenone was successfully implemented in a microreactor system. The electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) technique was utilized to detect free radical species during the reaction and validate the re- action mechanism proposed. Subsequently, the influences of reactant ratio, oxidant (K₂S₂O₈) dosage, reaction temperature and residence time on reaction performance were systematically studied. Furthermore, response surface methodology (RSM) with multi-response optimization was applied to enhance continuous flow synthesis. Under optimized conditions, the system achieved a space-time yield of 1.09 mol⋅L−1⋅h−1, which is hundreds of times higher than that of the batch reactor, while maintaining a yield of 76.15 %. Moreover, the reaction kinetic model for gem-dibromoenone synthesis was obtained, the activation energies of both the main and side reactions were determined, and the dependence of the rate constant on the K₂S₂O₈ concentration was also clarified. This research not only enhances the fundamental understanding on the gem-dibromoenone synthesis process and parameter optimization, but also establishes a theoretical foundation for its efficient and continuous production, thereby offering great potential for practical application.

where τ is the residence time and V is the volume of the microchannel.

Yield (Y₁) 56.90 < 0.0001 0.9827 0.9655 0.9092 Not Significant