Table 2. Volumetric and Linear Flow Rates, Reynolds Numbers, Resident Times, and Effective Resident Times of the Fluids in the Flow Tubular Microreactor

Figure 5. Calculated temperature profiles of the reaction fluids in the tubular microreactor along the direction of tube length at the flow rates of (a) 0.08 and (b) 0.6 mL min-1.

of ∼100 °C or above. Thus we examined the position in the tubular microreactor at which the fluid reached this temper- ature. Temperature profiles were calculated for the two extreme flow rates used in order to find out the position and the time needed for the fluid to reach the steady-state condition inside the tube. These profiles were calculated for the fluid in the region of the reactor immersed in the oil bath. We made the following further assumptions in the calculation: the fluid had a fully developed laminar flow pattern in the microre- actor with a constant wall temperature. Temperature gradient along the radius direction inside the tube was not taken into consideration. Forced convection heat transfer was used, since the fluid was pressed into the microreactor by a syringe pump. To obtain the temperature profiles in a helical tube, we calculated three dimensionless numbers including Prandtl number, Pr, helical number, He, and Nusselt number, Nu. Prandtl number was obtained using the following relation:23

where To is the temperature of the fluid at the inlet of the reactor (20 °C); Tw is the wall temperatures of the microre- actor (100-140 °C); and m is the mass flow rate of the fluid (1.04 × 10-6 kg s-1 at volumetric flow rate of 0.08 mL min-1). The density of isoamyl ether of 778 kg m-3 was used in the calculation.24

Synthesis of Silver Nanoparticles in a Continuous Flow Tubular Microreactor

flow rate (mL min-1) u (m s-1) Re τ (s) τeff (s)

100 °C. In all cases, Re numbers were far below the critical value of 2100, indicating the flows were laminar. Such flows took on a parabolic velocity profile and thus the nanoparticles formed in the center moved faster than those near the wall region. This nonuniformity in velocity profile could poten- tially cause the polydispersity of nanoparticles at a high flow rate in the microreactor.10 The resident time of the fluids in the tube, τ, was another critical factor for the formation of Ag nanoparticles. These values at different flow rates were calculated based on the flow rates and the length of microtube immersed in the oil bath (∼20 cm), Table 2. For this reaction system, a resident time of ∼60 s was required in order to obtain narrowly dispersed silver nanoparticles when the reaction temperature was 100 °C. Resident times shorter than 60 s resulted in smaller average diameters and broader size distributions of nanoparticles, Figure 4.

This paper describes the synthesis of silver nanoparticles in a continuous flow tubular microreactor using silver pentafluoropropionate as a single-phase reactant precursor. This precursor can be thermally reduced in isoamyl ether to form silver nanoparticles in the presence of trioctylamine. The reaction is suitable for continuous flow reactors because of the moderate temperature for the formation of silver nanoparticles. The produced silver nanoparticles can have a narrow size distribution. Temperature profiles of the reactant fluids are obtained to understand the formation of silver nanoparticles in the microreactor.

Figure 4. TEM image and the corresponding particle size distribution analysis of the Ag nanoparticles made in the tubular microreactor at a flow rate of 0.6 mL min-1.

Rapid injection of precursors into a heated mixture of solvent, coordinating ligands, and other precursors is often required. A batch process is suitable for those reactions, but often limited to small-scale synthesis due to the low production yield of nanoparticles and the time-consuming nature of the process. A flow reactor, on the other hand, can generate products on a continuous basis once the reaction reaches steady state and is more appropriate for a large-scale production than the batch reactor. Furthermore, targeted reaction temperatures can be achieved in second or even millisecond time scales in a microreactor. Microfluidic reactors have recently been used in the synthesis of various organic, inorganic, and biological materials.3-9 For the synthesis of colloidal nanoparticles, attention has largely focused on various semiconducting materials. Several groups have recently used fluidic micro- reactors10-14 to make semiconductor nanoparticles of CdSe10-13

