Using a microreactor, we were able to gently control the flow rate of the two joined phases with electrical syringe pumps. Change in flow rate

Mean particle size d m [L] Flow ratios q – Flowrate Q m3/s [L3T−1] Concentration C kg/m3 [ML-3] Density ρ kg/m3 [ML-3] Viscosity μ kg/ (m s) [ML-1T−1] Radius R m [L]

Inlet Component ρ(g/mL) μ(Pa⋅s)

min. This is because as the flow rate increases, apigenin is able to mix more quickly into deionized water. Due to the short time allowed for crystal growth, apigenin crystallizes quickly, and it is easier to form nanocrystals with small particle size and narrow particle size distribu­ tion [52]. The effects of different flow rates on the mixing index and effective time of apigenin can be compared by numerical simulation. The mo­ lecular mass distribution of apigenin under different flow rates is shown in Fig. 8. The smaller the flow rates, the more obvious the fluid strati­ fication in the microreactor is, and the smaller the contact surface be­ tween apigenin and water, resulting in larger precipitated apigenin particles. Increasing the flow rate, especially when Q = 1 mL/min, the chaotic convection in the microreactor is enhanced, which makes the apigenin in full contact with water, and rapidly precipitates the nano­ particles with small particle size from the water. There is no significant difference in the mixing index of the four flow rates in Fig. 9(a), but the greater the flow rate, the shorter the time required for molecular transport. Therefore, the greater the flow rates, the shorter the time to

[18,19]. However, the traditional preparation methods are usually performed at macroscale. At the macroscale, it is difficult to accurately control the preparation environment of nano drug crystals and easily leads to wide particle size distribution. Microreactor technology has been widely used for the preparation of microscale and nanoscale particles [20–23]. Compared with traditional methods, microreactor technology provides a more precise and controllable environment for the investigation of preparation processes at nanoscale or microscale, which is conducive to preparing high-quality crystals [24–27]. By using the droplet microfluidic technology and uti­ lizing the characteristics of rapid continuous mixing inside the droplet, Zhang, Toprakcioglu et al. [28] through the combination of simulation and experiment, found that changing parameters such as protein con­ centration and flow rate can finely adjust the size characteristics of nanoparticles, so as to prepare highly monodisperse protein nano­ particles. Zhang et al. [29] investigated the effects of microgravity and hypergravity on the antisolvent crystallization of L-histidine in a self

Fig. 9. Mass transfer effect of different flowrate of apigenin (a)Mixing efficiency; (b) t0.9.

Fig. 6. Mass transfer effect of different flow ratio of apigenin (a) Mixing efficiency; (b) t0.9.

effect (Fig. 9(b)). When Q = 1 mL/min, t0.9 is only 0.16 s. It can be judged that the larger the flow, the shorter the effective time required in the apigenin molecular molecule reactor, and the better the mass transfer effect.

where u denotes the velocity vector, ρ is the fluid density, p is the pressure, μ is the viscosity, Cap is the mass fraction of apigenin and D is the diffusion coefficient of the apigenin molecule. CFD software, ANSYS/FLUENT 19.2, was used to solve the governing equations. In the experiment, the flow state of solvent and anti-solvent was laminar flow, thus the laminar flow model was adopted. The solver was set as pressure-based solver, and the steady-state calculation were adopted. The SIMPLEC method was applied for the pressur­ e–velocity coupling. The convergence criterion of the simulation was that the values of all governing equations residual less than 10-5. In the boundary conditions, two Inlets (Inlet-1 and Inlet-2) were set as velocity inlets, and one Outlet was set as pressure outlet. The other faces are defined as walls, and the channel walls are set as no slip boundary conditions. In the solvent/anti-solvent system, the amount of apigenin dissolved in DMSO and the amount of surfactant dissolved in deionized water were less, the physical parameters of DMSO and deionized water were taken as those of the two fluids. The physical parameters of these two fluids were shown in Table 1. The distribution uniformity of apigenin in mixed solution can be used to quantify the transport mass of apigenin molecules. It can be

Fig. 8. Mass fraction contour of different flowrate of apigenin.

