The total volumetric flow rate must be determined to ensure an efficient mixing performance when operating such a fast di- azotization reaction in a microreactor system. Figure 2 shows the effect of the total volumetric flow rate on the yield of 4- NBDT at the same residence time. The mixing performance of two feed solutions was improved in the T-micromixer and the following capillary when the total volumetric flow rate in- creased. [44] As shown in Fig. 2, the yield of 4-NBDT was basically the same for various volumetric flow rates from 2 to 15 mL/min, indicating that the mixing performance was not a limiting factor for the diazotization performance under the involved experimental conditions. That is, the mixing was excellent and fast enough for the diazotization. All the follow- ing experiments were operated with a total volumetric flow rate of 2 mL/min (QA = QB = 1 mL/min) for the continuous- flow diazotization process.

The total volumetric flow rate of reactant solutions should be determined to ensure efficient mixing performance in the capil- lary microreactor system. Figure 7 shows the variation of the 4- NBP yield with different total volumetric flow rates at the same residence time. The volumetric flow rate ratio of Solution D to Solution C was maintained at 5. As mentioned above, the mixing performance between two solutions became better in the microreactor with the increasing the volumetric flow rate. The yield of 4-NBP was basically the same in the range of chosen flow conditions, indicating that the mixing performance was not the limiting factor for the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reac- tion process in our experiments. All the following experiments were operated with a total volumetric flow rate of 0.3 mL/min (QC = 0.05 mL/min and QD = 0.25 mL/min) for the continuous- flow Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction process. In previous studies, halogenated hydrocarbons were often used as reactants in the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-cou- pling reaction at a relatively high temperature, and the reactions could be quenched effectively by decreasing the reaction temperature or separating the catalysts from the products in the heterogeneous process. However, for the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction with the use

gasification and the 4-NBDT decomposition, we only pumped the MeOH solution (with or without 4-NBDT) into the capil- lary microreactor system under all the experimental condi- tions. No gas bubbles were observed in the capillary microreactor. According to the reaction mechanism, the gas bubbles were mainly formed by nitrogen (N2) and produced due to the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction. Besides, the solubility of N2 in MeOH decreased with the temperature rising, increasing the volumetric flow rate of N2. The actual residence time of reactants at 40 °C with the existence of gas bubbles was immensely shortened compared to the residence time at 25 °C without the gas generation. Even so, the yield of 4-NBP and the conversion of 4-NBDT still reached the max- imum value at 40 °C with the residence time less than 8 min. Hence, the increase of the reaction temperature was proved to accelerate the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction with a high reaction selectivity (99%). The reaction rate was quite fast at high reaction tem- peratures, and a great deal of gas was generated in the capillary microreactor as the reaction progressed, which increased the difficulty to precisely control the residence time. In this work, we preferred to operate the Suzuki- Miyaura cross-coupling reaction at room temperature (25 °C) without N2 releasing from the reaction system. Figure 11 shows the effect of the residence time on the yields of 4-NBP and by-products (biphenyl and 4,4′- dinitrobiphenyl) and the conversion of 4-NBDT in the capillary microreactor system at 25 °C. The residence time was varied by changing the length of the capillary microreactor with a constant volumetric flow rate of two reactant solutions (QC = 0.05 mL/min, and QD = 0.25 mL/min). The yield of 4-NBP increased signifi- cantly from 5% to 99% with the residence time varied from 1 min to 13 min, while the conversion of 4-NBDT increased from 10% to 100%. The yield of biphenyl increased from 0.38% to 5%, and the yield of 4,4′- dinitrobiphenyl was less sensitive to the residence time. These experimental results indicated the high efficiency of the homogeneous Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling re- action in the capillary microreactor and proved that PBA was quickly homocoupling than 4-NBDT under

involved operational conditions. Hence, the highest 4- NBP yield of 99% was achieved with the residence time of 13 min in the capillary microreactor system.

The schematic overview of the capillary microreactor system is shown in Fig. 1. Twosteps, namely the diazotization and the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction, were operated sepa- rately in this work. In the diazotization step synthesizing 4- NBDT, Solution A was prepared by dissolving PNA and HBF4 in MeCN with the fixed PNA concentration of 0.81 mol/L, while Solution B consisted of NaNO2, s- trioxane (internal standard, 0.08 mol/L) and water. The volu- metric flow rate ratio of Solution A to Solution B was fixed at 1. Solution A and B were delivered into the capillary microreactor system by two syringe pumps (NE-1200, New Era Pump System, Inc., United States). Both these two solu- tions were preheated to the set temperature in coiled capillaries before they mixed in a polyetheretherketone (PEEK) micromixer. The residence time for the diazotization could

be easily controlled by varying the perfluoroalkoxy (PFA) capillary length. The whole capillary microreactor system, which consisted of the T-micromixer and capillaries with the same inner diameter (ID = 1.0 mm), was submerged in a water bath maintaining the set temperature (25–65 °C). At the cap- illary microreactor outlet, the reaction was quenched in a col- lection vessel containing a suitable amount of urea by con- suming the residual NaNO2. The liquid sample was collected for the further determination of the 4-NBDT yield. The yield of 4-NBDT was calculated from PNA. TD and tD represent the reaction temperature and the residence time for the diazotiza- tion, respectively. In the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction step, the reactant 4-NBDT was crystallized and purified from the diaz- otization step with a purity of 99%. The whole capillary microreactor system setup in this step was the same as in the diazotization, as shown in Fig. 1. Solution C was prepared by dissolving phenylboronic acid (PBA) (0.101 mol/L) in MeOH, while 4-NBDT (0.0169 mol/L) and Pd(OAc)2 were dissolved in MeOH as Solution D. The volumetric flow rate ratio of Solution D to Solution C was fixed at 5. The Suzuki- Miyaura cross-coupling reaction was quenched by diluting the liquid effluent from the capillary microreactor system in a collection vessel containing a known volume of MeCN. The yields of all the products were calculated from 4-NBDT. TS and tS represent the reaction temperature and residence time for the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction, respectively.

transport efficiency for achieving a high yield of the target product (4-NBDT).

*The yield of 4-NBP determined in all the batch processes was isolated yield

homogeneous Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reactions. [19, 20] Ionic liquid (IL) was used to transform the heterogeneous Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction to a homogeneous state and implemented in a continuous-flow microreactor sys- tem. [21] Due to the better mixing performance of microreactor, the yield and selectivity were improved than the batch reactor. Next, a droplet-based microreactor was used in the IL-based Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction to solve the clogging problem in the microchannel. The yield in droplet-based microreactor was improved 9.3% compared to the traditional batch reactor, but there was only a slight increasement compared to the single-phase microreactor. [22] Buchwald and Jensen also developed an automated droplet-flow microfluidic system for the optimization of Pd- catalyzed Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reactions. [23] Integrated automation and online analytics can study Pd source, ligand, and continuous variables simultaneously, giv- ing efficient optimization and understanding of the reaction process. The majority of the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction studies, as mentioned above, used halogenated electrophiles. In recent years, arenediazonium salts have attracted signif- icant attention as aryl electrophilic components because they can be easily produced from corresponding aromatic amines with high yield and are more reactive than halogenated hydro- carbons. [24, 25] Its application in cross-coupling reactions has been extensively studied by researchers. [26–29] The re- action of aniline with HNO2 to synthesize the arenediazonium salts is called diazotization. [12] As the aromatic amine diaz- otization process was exothermic and rapid, it should be con- ducted at low temperatures in a batch reactor to decrease the safety risk. [30, 31] Simultaneously, the thermal instability of the diazonium intermediate and the uncontrollable thermal decomposition of arendiazonium salts increased the require- ments of the reactors heat transfer capacity. Organ et al. [32] reported a three-step continuous-flow system (diazotization, iododediazotization and Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reac- tion) constructed by three pieces of PFA capillary tubing (ID = 1.52 mm) with different volumes. Biphenyl compounds were continuously produced from aniline derivatives with sat- isfactory yields at 60 °C and the total reaction time was about one hour. Except this study combining the diazotization with the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction in microreactors, more studies about diazotization in microreactors were used for the other twoor multi-step reactions, such as Heck- Matsuda reaction, [33, 34] Balz-Schiemann reaction, [17,

As is well known, intrinsic reaction rate constants usually increase with the temperature increase according to the Arrhenius Equation. We studied the effect of reaction temper- ature on the yields of 4-NBP and by-products (biphenyl and 4,4'-dinitrobiphenyl) and the conversion of 4-NBDT in the capillary microreactor system with the residence time of 7.85 min. As shown in Fig. 10, the yield of 4-NBP increased from 52% to 99% with the increase of the reaction temperature from 20 °C to 45 °C, while the conversion of 4-NBDT in- creased from 68% to 100%. These results indicated that the increase of the reaction temperature was beneficial for im- proving the reaction rate leading to a significant increase of the 4-NBP yield. Moreover, the effect of the reaction temper- ature on the yields of 4,4'-dinitrobiphenyl and biphenyl was not evident, while the yields of these two homocoupling by- products were maintained as 0.83% and 5%, respectively. It is worth noting that gas bubbles were gradually generated in the capillary microreactor when the reaction temperature was higher than 30 °C. To rule out the possibility of the MeOH

of a diazonium salt as a reactant, which was operated at mild reaction temperature, the low-temperature quenching method was infeasible as the reaction would progress in the analysis units. An efficient quenching method should be developed for accurate determination of the reaction performance. In the continuous-flow ho- mogeneous operation at room temperature, MeCN was chosen as the quencher. To illustrate the efficiency of the quenching operation, we collected the reaction solu- tion at the outlet of the capillary microreactor with or without quenching and then left the solution for a peri- od of standing time before analysis. Figure 8 shows the effect of quenching on the yield of 4-NBP at different standing times. The yield of 4-NBP still increased in one hour without quenching, while the yield remained at a certain level with quenching. Hence, MeCN was proved to be an efficient quencher in the continuous- flow homogeneous Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction.

time on the yield of 4-NBDT in the capillary microreactor system with a constant molar ratio of HBF4, NaNO2 and PNA (i.e., 2.72:1.05:1). The yield of 4-NBDT reached 97% in just 2.3 s at 25 °C and then decreased slightly with further increasing the residence time due to the decomposition of the diazonium salts that could be proved by the existence of by- products. [17] When the residence time was shorter than 4 s, the yield of 4-NBDT slightly decreased from 97% to 95% with the increase of the reaction temperature from 25 °C to 65 °C. However, the impact of the reaction temperature on the yield of 4-NBDT was more sensitive than the residence time. A higher reaction temperature boosted the decomposition of the diazonium salts leading to an inevitable decrease of the 4- NBDT yield. These results indicated that the decrease of the reaction temperature and a suitable residence time were ben- eficial for improving the yield of 4-NBDT. We also operated the diazotization reaction at a temperature less than 25 °C, resulting in the blockage of the capillary microreactor by the precipitated diazonium salts, which only could be prevented by the decrease in the concentration of reactants. Hence, to operate the diazotization in a capillary microreactor at a mild temperature with high reaction efficiency and appropriate en- ergy consumption, the reaction temperature of 25 °C and the residence time of 2.3 s were considered as optimal operational conditions. The transport properties provided by batch reactors can- not match the reaction kinetics of such a fast reaction, leading to uneven local temperature and concentration dis- tribution which is not conducive to the diazotization per- formance. These results indicated the importance of pre- cisely controlling the molar ratio of reactants, the reaction temperature and the residence time of the diazotization process and highlighted the microreactor with remarkable

Abstract The process characteristics of two main steps in the preparation of 4-nitrobiphenyl (4-NBP) from 4-nitroaniline (PNA) were clearly revealed by applying two continuous-flow microreactors. The first step was the synthesis of 4-nitrobenzene diazonium tetrafluoroborate (4-NBDT) through the diazotization reaction. The reaction temperature, the residence time, and the molar ratio of different reactants were investigated to achieve optimal reaction conditions with the highest yield of 4-NBDT. Notably, the yield of 4-NBDT reached 97% at 25 °C only in 2.3 s with the optimal molar ratio of HBF4, NaNO2 and PNA (i.e., 2.72:1.05:1). The second step was the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction, in which HNO3 was used to transform the reaction system into a homogeneous state. The effects of mixing performance, the molar percentage of Pd(OAc)2 to 4-NBDT, the reaction temper- ature and the residence time on the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction were investigated systematically. With the molar percentage of Pd(OAc)2 to 4-NBDT of 1 mol%, the yield of 4-nitrobiphenyl (4-NBP) was optimized to 99% in just 13 min at 25 °C. This study demonstrated the excellent potential of utilizing the continuous-flow microreactor for the diazotization and the following Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction.

The reaction temperature plays an essential role on the reac- tion process, especially for rapid and exothermic reactions like diazotization. As a typical diazotization process in a batch reactor, the reaction temperature is often controlled below 0 °C to operate the diazotization with a relatively low reaction rate for preventing the temperature runaway. Due to the effi- cient heat transfer performance of the microreactor, the diaz- otization process can be conducted under higher reaction tem- peratures. The diazonium salts are unstable if the reaction temperature reaches a certain value, and thus the reaction tem- perature and the residence time should be optimized. Fig. 5 shows the effects of the reaction temperature and the residence

flow process with the use of the capillary microreactor, and the reaction efficiency was promoted with shorter reaction time and lower cost catalyst. In short, the microreactor shows ex- cellent application potential for both the diazotization and the following Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction. Nevertheless, there are still lots of work to be done in the future such as combining these two steps into one continuous-flow microreactor system by choosing more effi- cient solvents.

31] Sandmeyer reaction, [35] Meerwein arylation, [36] and diazo coupling reaction. [37] Although diazonium salts are hazardous, continuous-flow processing has the benefit of making such compounds in situ and immediately consuming them. [30, 38, 39] Few studies did evaluate the diazotization process alone due to the instability of diazonium intermedi- ates. Most of studies only have characterized the diazotization efficiency by the yield in the final step, let alone the effects of operational conditions on the yields of arenediazonium salts were systematically investigated in microreactors. Besides, all reported studies [40–42] about the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-cou- pling reaction using arenediazonium salts as reactants were carried out in batch reactors to our best of knowledge. Moreover, further process optimization of the Suzuki- Miyaura cross-coupling reaction should be investigated to in- crease the reaction selectivity and the yield of target products, such as the stability and the dosage of the catalysts, the resi- dence time and the reaction temperature. In this work, 4-nitrobiphenyl (4-NBP) was synthesized from 4-nitroaniline (PNA) in two steps, as shown in Scheme 2. Step 1 was the diazotization of PNA to 4- nitrobenzene diazonium tetrafluoroborate (4-NBDT), while Step 2 was the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reac- tion. These two steps were conducted in two continuous- flow microreactors separately in order to clearly reveal their process characteristics. It should be noted that 4- NBDT is much more stable compared with halogenated diazonium salts, and thus the diazotization (Step 1) can be studied in terms of the 4-NBDT yield. In the diazotiza- tion process, acetonitrile (MeCN) was selected as the sol- vent to avoid the precipitation of diazonium salts in the microreactor. The diazotization temperature, the residence time, and the molar ratio of HBF4 and NaNO2 to PNA were optimized to obtain a high yield of 4-NBDT. In the Suzuki- Miyaura cross-coupling reaction process, HNO3 was used to promote the dissolution of Pd(OAc)2, maintaining the reaction system in a homogeneous state. Also, effects of the molar percentage of Pd(OAc)2 to 4-NBDT, the reaction temperature and the residence time on the yields of 4-NBP and other homocoupling by-products were investigated systematically.

Effects of reaction temperature and residence time on the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction performance

Effects of reaction temperature and residence time on the diazotization performance

strong acid and water in the acid solution. By far, we are still investigating the effect of the acidic condition on the Suzuki- Miyaura cross-coupling reaction performance, and more de- tailed experimental results will be concluded in our future work. Based on the present experimental results, the HNO3 concentration of 11.5 mmol/L could be an optimal value for the continuous-flow homogeneous Suzuki-Miyaura cross- coupling reaction process.

diazotization was the first order to the aniline substrate and the second-order to nitrous acid, indicating the importance of the acid concentration to the diazotization reaction rate. Typically, more than two equivalents of mineral acid were needed based on the stoichiometry of the diazotization to ac- celerate the formation of diazonium salts. Besides, low nitrous acid concentration results in the reduction of the diazonium salt stability as unreacted aromatic amines can react with dia- zonium salts to form by-products (e.g., azo compounds). [46] A stoichiometric or a slightly larger amount of NaNO2 is often used in the diazotization process to prevent an excess of the nitrous acid formation. Therefore, the effects of HBF4 and NaNO2 dosages on the diazotization process should be inves- tigated in detail. Figure 3 shows the effect of the molar ratio of HBF4 to PNA on the yield of 4-NBDT in the capillary microreactor system while maintaining the same residence time (tD = 2.3 s) and the same reaction temperature (TD = 25 °C). The molar ratio of HBF4 to PNA was varied by changing the concentra- tion of HBF4 with a constant PNA concentration. The yield of 4-NBDT increased with the increase of the molar ratio of HBF4 to PNA. The highest yield of 4-NBDT reached 98.5% with the molar ratio of HBF4 to PNA being 3.11. However, the promotion on the yield of 4-NBDT was less significant with the further increase of the molar ratio of HBF4 to PNA after its value reached 2.72. As shown in Fig. 4, the effect of the molar ratio of NaNO2 to PNA on the yield of 4-NBDT was investigated in the cap- illary microreactor system with three different molar ratios of HBF4 to PNA. The yield of 4-NBDT firstly increased and then decreased with the increase in the molar ratio of NaNO2 to PNA from 1.0 to 1.4. The highest yield of 4-NBDT could reach 98% with the molar ratio of NaNO2 to PNA being 1.05. However, 4-NBDT was found to precipitate at the molar