The fluid dynamics of reactors involving multi-phase flow has significant effect on the reactor performance. It is critical to understand the hydrodynamics in the microreactor before at- tempting to study the effect of operating conditions and the ki- netics of the reaction in the microreactor. Various flow regimes ranging from bubbly flow to annular flow exists in small chan- nel diameters (between 0.5 and 5 mm) at different gas and liq- uid flow velocities (Kreutzer et al., 2001, 2005a). We conducted flow visualization experiments using a transparent glass tube with the same dimensions as the microreactor. The liquid flow rates used in these experiments varied from 0.03 to 0.2 mL/min and gas flow rates from 2 to 10 sccm. During these experiments,

a two-phase flow pattern known as Taylor flow, with alternat- ing gas and liquid slugs was observed in the empty microreac- tor under all operating conditions. Numerical simulation using CFD and Fluent also proved that Taylor flow exists under these flow conditions (Qian and Lawal, 2006). Similar flow visualization experiments were conducted in a glass microreactor with a square cross section measur- ing 500 m × 500 m packed with glass beads of the same size range as the catalyst particles used in all experiments. These experiments showed that Taylor flow regime exists in a packed-bed microreactor as well, except that slug boundaries are broken-up by the particles. This type of flow is known as transitional Taylor flow. During gas–liquid reactions in micro channels, Taylor flow has been shown to enhance mass trans- fer significantly (Kreutzer et al., 2001). Therefore, for all the experiments reported here, the reactor was operated in Taylor flow regime.

Fig. 10. Schematic representation of mass transfer steps in a packed-bed microreactor.

Födisch et al. (2002) also investigated the liquid-phase hydrogenation of p-nitro toluene using a stack of porous microstructured aluminum wafers, aluminum wire pieces and conventional fixed-bed particles in a microreactor module. They observed that the conversion in the wafers ranged from 39% to 84%, in comparison to 85% conversion with the fixed-bed microreactor. The reason for this could be that the fixed-bed microreactor offers higher residence time in the re- actor than the other modes of catalyst incorporation in the microreactor module. Although, fixed-bed microreactor offers improvements in thermal management and mass transfer, there are obvious problems of pressure drop with channel dimensions in micron scale especially when operating at high flow rates to increase the production rate. This problem can be overcome by distributing the flow into multiple channels (numbering up) so that the pressure drop in each channel is kept low and the throughput remains the same. Losey et al. (2001) compared

the performance of the multi-channel packed microreactor with the traditional multi-phase packed-bed reactors in terms of pressure drop and mass transfer. They observed tremendous improvement in the mass transfer efficiencies of the packed- bed microreactor while maintaining the same pressure drop as the traditional packed-bed reactors. In consideration of all the above, and its special impor- tance to the pharmaceutical industry, the hydrogenation of o- nitroanisole to o-anisidine was chosen as a model reaction in the present study to evaluate the performance of the packed- bed microreactor by studying the effects of various operating conditions on the reactor performance. Also, this reactor was used to study the kinetics of this reaction so that optimum reac- tion conditions can be determined for the design of the multi- channel reactor. The advantages of conducting kinetic studies in microreactor is the small size of the microreactor channel ensures isothermal conditions to be maintained necessary for kinetic characterization of highly exothermic reactions that is not easy to obtain in classical calorimetric or batch systems. Also, the enhanced mass transfer rate in the microreactor en- ables the reactor to be operated in the true kinetic controlled region. The present study provides a detailed study of the kinetics of the reaction in a packed-bed microreactor using 2% Pd/zeolite catalyst. The significance of inter-phase and intraparticle mass and heat transfer effects have been analyzed and, based on the experimental data obtained in the kinetic region, rate equations were derived. The theoretical predictions from these equations were compared with the experimental data obtained in the in- tegral reactor.

The saturated concentration of hydrogen in the reaction medium was obtained from the solubility data for H2 in a mixture of o- nitroanisole-methanol from the work of Brahme et al. (1982). The values of kglagl were obtained from the correlations avail- able in the literature. The only available literature providing the values of mass transfer coefficients for packed-bed microreac- tor was that of Losey et al. (2001). They observed that the mass transfer coefficients values of their system were in the range of 5.15 s−1. However, there are no correlations available in the lit- erature for estimating the gas–liquid mass transfer coefficients in a packed-bed microreactor. Therefore, the correlations from trickle-bed (Versteeg et al., 1992; Iliuta et al., 1999) and mono- lith reactors (Kreutzer et al., 2001) were assumed to be the closest approximate for the mass transfer coefficient values in the packed-bed microreactor. The calculated values of 1 using the correlations are much higher than 1 which is highly impos- sible. This suggests that the actual mass transfer coefficient in the packed-bed microreactor is much higher than the estimates obtained from these correlations. Since there are no reliable correlations for estimating the gas–liquid mass transfer coeffi- cients for packed microreactor, experimental verification was considered as the only means of concluding that the reaction is not mass-transfer limited at the gas–liquid interface.

heat removal. In the pharmaceutical industry, the heat gener- ated from these reactions usually requires several hundred tons of refrigeration controlled by a centralized system leading to huge energy requirements. Also, the non-uniform temperature distribution in the conventional reactors may develop hot spots on the catalyst surface or may lead to the formation of sev- eral byproduct(s) or intermediate(s) which can also react with one another, and further lead to violent decomposition of nitro compounds or partially hydrogenated intermediates (Stoessel, 1993; Blaser et al., 2001). Therefore, good temperature con- trol within the reactor is essential to increase the selectivity of the desired compounds, and also to prevent thermal explosion conditions. Improvements to the existing reactor systems led to the in- vention of miniaturized reactor configurations such as microre- actors and mini-structured catalyst beds to solve the problems associated with heat and mass transfer in conventional sys- tems. Microreactors are miniaturized reactor systems with re- actor channel characteristic dimensions in the sub-millimeter range. These devices have been investigated for a number of model gas–surface catalytic reactions, liquid-phase, gas–liquid reactions as well as some selected commercial demonstrations like partial oxidation reaction in fuel cells and fine chemicals production. The use of a continuous microreactor for highly exothermic reactions enables uniform temperature control throughout the reactor because of the high surface-to-volume ratio in these reactors. Because the temperature of most of the tubular reac- tors is controlled through walls of the reactor, as the diameter of the tubular reactor increases, the reactor becomes increas- ingly hindered by temperature gradients thereby reducing the reactor performance. This has been demonstrated by Besser and Ouyang (2005) and Besser et al. (2005), who conducted experimental and simulation studies on CO preferential oxi- dation reaction in a microchannel reactor with thin film wall catalyst and conventional packed-bed reactors of 2 and 4 mm diameters. They observed increase in CO conversion with de- crease in the reactor diameter from 4 to 2 mm and further in- crease in CO conversion with the microchannel reactor. The extremely efficient heat removal capacity of the microreac- tor eliminates temperature gradients and prevents the on-set of other side reactions (such as r-WGS reaction for preferential ox- idation) that may result due to temperature gradients inside the reactor. For most multi-phase reactions, which are usually limited by mass transfer effects, the microreactor also offers improved overall reaction rate and reactor performance when compared

3.2.3. Effect of residence time on conversion, selectivity and STY In the current experimental reactor system, since the microre- actor is in the form of a packed-bed, it is important to define the residence time for this multi-phase reaction before we ac- tually study the effect of varied residence time. Residence time can be defined as the total volume of the catalyst divided by the total superficial volumetric flow rate of the liquid and gas.

Fig. 5. Effect of liquid flow rate on reactor performance. (All runs were made at 45 ◦C, 100 psig reactor pressure, H2 flow rate of 5 sccm, liquid feed containing 1.2 mol/L nitroanisole in methanol and 13 mg of 2% Pd/zeolite catalyst.)

Although several fast hydrogenation reactions have been con- ducted in microreactors, there are limited studies on the use of microreactor for obtaining intrinsic kinetics in spite of the ex- cellent mass transfer characteristics it offers. The present study has exploited the advantages of microreactor for obtaining the intrinsic kinetics of the hydrogenation of o-nitroanisole reac- tion for a wide range of operating conditions, thus extending its capability to extremely fast reactions that are controlled by mass transfer in conventional reactors.

