3.5. Comparison of the microreactor with a batch reactor

Recently, microchannel reactors have been utilized for produc- ing nano-sized particles, including metals and alloys [13–18], me- tal salts [19,20], metal oxides [21], polymers [22], mesoporous materials [23], and zeolites [24]. The flow type microchannel reac- tors are able to intensify the mass and heat transfers as well as the mixing. The high surface-to-volume ratio in the microchannel reactors is favorable to enhance the response time and maintain isothermal conditions. Because the concentrations of reactants and temperature are homogeneous in the reaction zone, the ob- tained particles are uniform and reproducible.

When a single phase is involved, the velocity distribution in a microchannel is substantially broadened along the flow direction. Gunther et al. [25] compared the well mixing efficiency chaotic mixer with a liquid–liquid two phase mixer, and found that, when the fluid was mixed completely (P95%), the length of the channel required for the two-phase flow was 2–3 times shorter than for the single-phase flow. The computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simula- tions indicate that the enhancement of mass transfer can be inter- preted in terms of an internal circulation flow within the plugs. As a consequence, narrow particle size distribution could be obtained in the synthesis of nanoparticles due to the enhanced mixing and the narrow residence time distribution in the segmented liquid–li- quid flow [26]. Another important issue in the synthesis of solid materials in a microchannel is that the formed particles may nucle- ate and deposit on the microchannel walls, leading to runaway growth, clogging, and unstable reactor conditions. Jongen et al. [27] designed a complex liquid–liquid two phase slug-flow mic- roreactor, which included an aqueous phase of the two reactants and an oil phase. The immiscible oil phase isolated the aqueous phase in droplets. Nanoparticles nucleate and grow in the isolated droplets, whereas the droplets will not contact with the micro- channel walls when the oil-to-water volume ratio is carefully ad- justed in a suitable range, preventing the solid particles from depositing on the walls.

To clarify the role of the micromixer in the synthesis, the micromixer was replaced by a T-joint (inner diameter of the pipes: 2 mm) in the continuous synthesis system. The size distribution of the obtained ZnO nanoparticles was compared with those of the particles synthesized in the microreator and in the batch reactor (Fig. 12). It is apparent that the micromixer significantly reduced the particle size and improved the size distribution of ZnO nanoparticles.

 The microemulsion approach avoids the deposition of particles in the microchannels.

The microreactor for the synthesis of ZnO nanoparticles is illus- trated in Fig. 2. The micromixer (CPMM-R 300, microchannel size: 300  300 lm, Mainz, Germany) and the relay tube (stainless steel, i.d. 6.35 mm  1.0 m) were immersed in an oil thermostat, whose temperature was adjusted by a temperature controller. M(Zn2+) and M(NaOH) were fed separately to the two inlets of the microm- ixer by two syringe HPLC pumps. At a steady state, a white suspen- sion was obtained at the outlet of the relay tube. The precipitates were collected by centrifugation at 4000 r/min for 10 min, and washed with ethanol, acetone, and water sequentially for three

3.4. Effect of feed flow rate

Synthesis of ZnO nanoparticles from microemulsions in a flow type microreactor

Keywords: Microchannel reactor Microemulsion Zinc oxide Nanoparticle

In the microchannel reaction system, three phases are involved in the reaction: droplets of M(Zn2+) and droplets of M(NaOH) dis- persed in the organic phase (Fig. 3). A prerequisite in the synthesis reaction is the merging of one droplet of M(Zn2+) with the one of M(NaOH). In the present study, M(Zn2+) and M(NaOH) were pre- pared under identical conditions with the same aqueous solution content. Fig. 4 shows the photos of the aqueous droplets in M(NaOH) and in M(Zn(NO3)2). The droplets in both M(NaOH) and M(Zn(NO3)2) were well dispersed in the oil phases. The diameters of the droplets were measured in the photos, and the average sizes of droplets were calculated. The average size of the droplets in M(NaOH) (1.2 lm) was comparable to that in M(Zn(NO3)2) (1.4 lm). When M(NaOH) and M(Zn(NO3)2) were fed by two sepa- rate syringe pumps, the droplets of M(Zn2+) and M(NaOH) were passed through the microchannels of the micromixer alternatingly in most cases. When the droplet of M(Zn2+) collides with the one of M(NaOH), a merging of the droplets may take place, leading to the formation of a larger droplet. It is in this merged droplet that Zn2+

