Compression-type fittings for 1/32″ capillaries are seamlessly inte­ grated into the top plate to introduce the reaction gas mixture and allow the outflow of products. Low-flow mass flow controllers (Bronkhorst High-Tech B.V.) are employed to control the gas flow rates into the microreactor. The products leave the microreactor through a 130 µm internal diameter stainless-steel capillary (Valco Instruments Co. Inc.) to reach a T-piece, where helium carrier gas can be introduced to accel­ erate the flow towards a backpressure regulator with a small dead vol­ ume (Equilibar® USA) and subsequently to the gas chromatograph (GC). The accelerated product flow rate lowers the response time of the GC to changes in the reaction conditions.

Fluid flow: The fluid flow in the microreactor channel is modelled by solving the continuity equation and the steady state Navier-Stokes equation for incompressible fluids in the ‘Laminar Flow' interface. The governing equations are as follows:

The concentration profiles of CO at 240 ◦C and 40 bar are presented in Fig. 7b and 7c for the lowest and highest flow rates (0.04 and 0.32 sccm/µgcat, respectively). The simulation provides a detailed insight into the distribution of product along the length and width of the micro­ reactor channel. These profiles reveal that the product concentration continuously increases from the inlet to the outlet of the reactor. Notably, the CO concentration is nearly constant along the width of the channel. These factors collectively indicate a close resemblance to an ideal plug flow reactor [59].

The high sensitivity of the microreactor is achieved through an ac­ curate control of the low flow rates supplied to the 50 µL reactor channel through low dead volume capillaries and a sensitive product quantifi­ cation down to 1 ppm via a GC. In the current experiments, with a feed gas flow rate of 0.5 sccm, temperature of 240 ◦C, and pressure of 40 bar, the CO concentration measured at the reactor exit was 1172 ppm and 645 ppm for samples with catalyst loadings of 2.1 µg/cm2 (8.8 ML) and 1.1 µg/cm2 (4.7 ML), respectively. This demonstrates a proportional relationship between catalyst loading and product concentration. By systematically decreasing the catalyst loading under the same condi­ tions, CO concentrations of 50 ppm and 5 ppm at the reactor exit should be observed at catalyst loadings of 160 ng/cm2 (0.7 ML) and 16 ng/cm2

Fig. 1. Schematics of the experimental setup with the microreactor: (a) Inlet, (b) preheater, (c) thermocouple, (d) tube furnace housing the microreactor, (e) gas flow path through the microchannel, (f) outlet, (g) back pressure regulator, (h) gas flow capillaries (blue lines), (i) pressure gauges, (j) data communication (orange lines). (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)

As gas passes through the microreactor channel, which has a height of 70 µm, it establishes a parabolic velocity profile due to the no-slip condition at the walls. This results in a maximum velocity at the cen­ ter of the channel, which decreases to zero at the reactor walls, including the catalytic surfaces (Fig. 7a). Consequently, the reactants must diffuse from the bulk flow to the surface of the catalyst through a stagnant fluid layer. Similarly, products formed on the catalytic surface will diffuse back through this stagnant layer to enter the bulk flow and exit the

laboratory reactors. As a result, a specialized microreactor designed to handle these extremely small catalyst quantities on planar substrates is necessary to ensure sufficient contact time at lower feed gas flow rates, while minimizing product dilution. Additionally, the geometry of the reactor should be suitable for planar samples.

Reaction engineering and fluid dynamics simulations, performed with the COMSOL Multiphysics package [44], were used to validate the design and performance of the microreactor. The following governing equations were solved:

2.1. Design and fabrication of microreactor

As detailed in Section 2.1 and illustrated in Fig. 3a, the placement of the planar catalyst sample in the microreactor creates a rectangular microchannel measuring 48 × 18 × 0.07 mm3 (green), with catalyst deposited surfaces at the bottom of the channel (highlighted by or­ ange dashed circles in Fig. 3b). The inlets and outlets are indicated by white-filled and dark-filled small circles in Fig. 3b at both ends of the channel. A 3D model of the microreactor was developed and discretized using a physics-controlled generation of a free triangular mesh, resulting in a denser mesh on the catalytic surfaces to accurately account for the non-zero boundary flux. Initially, simulations were conducted at a single temperature for the highest and lowest flow rates using a coarser mesh. The mesh density was then systematically adjusted until the results became independent of further increases in mesh density. Finally, all simulations were performed using a ‘fine' mesh comprising 2,561,479 domain elements, 716,140 boundary elements, and 5,910 edge ele­ ments. An enlarged view (15×) of a corner of the discretized domain, shown in Fig. 3c, demonstrates the mesh generation used for the simulations.

