1.1. High pressure reactions in continuous flow microreactors

Table 1 High pressure reactions in continuous flow microreactors.

The advantage of high pressure microreactors compared to their macroscale counterparts is obvious. No excessive wall thick- ness of the reaction channel is needed for mechanical stability and the impact of hazardous failure is drastically reduced since only little quantities of material are involved. Until now only few studies discuss high pressure chemical reactions in continuous flow microreactors. The equipment such as precision high pres- sure pumps and back pressure regulators lead to high investment cost furthermore high pressure microfluidic connections are not yet standardized for chip-based microreactors. Mechanically stable microfluidic connections for high pressure and high temperature are still difficult to manufacture if different materials with different coefficients of thermal expansion are involved. Most high pressure reactions in continuous flow microreac- tors are conducted in capillaries. This has several advantages such as the use of standard high pressure fluidic connections, inex- pensive tubing and an adjustable reactor volume by the length of the capillary. The main drawback is the lack of optical trans-

studied. All reactants are brought in contact, mix and react on the chip. In situ phase studies of the reaction mixture and the reac- tion performance were discussed. The phase studies confirmed a single phase reaction mixture at 25 and 50 ◦C during isobaric reaction conditions of 136 bar. The reaction performance increased with temperature whereas with increasing pressure no significant increase was observed. A comparison of the reactor performance in terms of space time yield with different reactor systems for the same model reaction is presented. The results indicate that high pressure microreactors are favorable for exothermic reactions because of the good heat removal due to the small reactor length scales. The space time yield is one order of magnitude greater than earlier reported values. Nevertheless, the translation to commercial scale throughput in microreactors still needs further investigations. Especially, the manifold design hence the equal distribution of fluid into numerous parallel microchannels must be addressed. This study shows the feasibility of high pressure Si/glass microreactors for reactions using scCO2 as the reaction solvent. The concept of an integrated high pressure microreactor chip is used for future in situ spectroscopic measurements. Further stud- ies will investigate in situ spectroscopic analysis methods as UV/Vis and Raman which will provide deeper insights in high pressure heterogeneous reactions involving supercritical fluids.

The Si/glass microreactors are fabricated using standard pho- tolithography, dry etching and anodic bonding techniques. The high pressure microfluidic connections are realized by soldering stain- less steel capillaries directly onto the chip similar to the technique used in [14]. The detailed fabrication process and the high pressure testing of the chip are reported elsewhere [10]. The rectangular channel dimensions in the main section were 400 m in width and 300 m in depth respectively (dh = 343 m). These dimensions were chosen for a practicable handling of the particles and flow rates and the mechanical stability of the device. Furthermore the channel length provides the fluid to heat up to the set tempera- ture for isothermal reaction conditions. The microreactor design as

Capillary-based microreactors

A versatile high pressure experimental setup for continuous operation as shown in Fig. 3 is used for the experiments. The setup allows the individual adjustment of the liquid and gas flow rates and of the system pressure. Stainless steel and polyetheretherke- tone (PEEK) capillaries (o.d. = 1.56 mm, i.d. = 0.5 mm) were used as tubing. High pressure PEEK connections (Upchurch Scientific) pro- vide a leak tight connection of the microreactor to the setup. C02 and C6H10 are fed in liquid phase by two water cooled high pressure syringe pumps (260D, ISCO). Hydrogen flow is controlled by a high pressure mass flow controller (F-230M, Bronkhorst). The pressure in the microreactor is controlled by an automated needle valve back pressure regulator (BP-1580-81, Jasco). The microreactor is placed in an oil bath for reactions at elevated temperatures. Standard reaction conditions were 136 bar and 70 ◦C with flow rates of the reactants of V*(CO2) = 200 L/min (136 bar, 18 ◦C), V*(C6H10) = 23 L/min (136 bar, 18 ◦C) and V*(H2) = 5.6 sccm. The ratio of the flow rates corresponds to a molar ratio of CO2:C6H10:H2 = 90:5:5. The reaction performance is analyzed within temperature and pressure ranges from 40 to 70 ◦C and 80–150 bar respectively. For phase studies the C6H10:H2 molar ratio is changed from 1:1 up to 1:4 to show the increase of hydrogen solu- bility in scCO2. Samples are collected in a sample vial after the back pressure regulator. The vial is cooled in an ice water bath and the product is diluted in toluene to dissolve the product for GC analy- sis. The conversion is analyzed offline by GC–MS. The three highest conversion values at steady state conditions are averaged to calcu- late the maximum reaction rates. No side products are detected by GC–MS. The cyclohexene conversion is calculated from the chro- matograms, where linearity between peak area and concentration is checked in the range of used conditions.

Fig. 3. Scheme of experimental setup. (1,2) Cooled high pressure syringe pumps. (3) Hydrogen mass flow controller. (4) Packed bed microreactor. (5) Back pressure regulator. (6) Sample vial.

shown in Fig. 2 consists of three inlets for the reactants, a meander- ing mixing section, a packed bed and a common outlet. The inlets were designed to primarily generate a stable segmented gas–liquid flow of C6H10 and H2, which is then dissolved by a side inflow of scCO2. The 64.6 mm long mixing section provides the reactants to mix and generate a single phase reaction mixture. The meandering shape of the channel enhances mass transfer in the radial direction, when hydrogen bubbles are present [15]. The catalyst particles were inserted via a side channel into the microreactor forming a packed bed of a maximum length of 26.5 mm. Micromachined sieves at the entrance and exit of the packed bed define the length of the packed bed as described in [16].

Reference Experiment Dimensions Reactor material microfluidic connection Range Comments

