the fast heat transfer of the microreactor. Liquid samples were collected every 20 min time on stream and prepared for gas chromatography and/or 1H NMR analysis. The ex- perimental data presented in this work are based on the measured sample concentrations under steady state conditions. Steady state was achieved once the measured concentration at the microreactor outlet did not alter for a given time on stream, which was usually after ca. 60 min (cf. Section S1 in the Supplementary Material). This relatively long time required is mainly due to the large empty volume (i.e., be- tween the microreactor and the gas–liquid separator) of the system and the low flow rates used.

where mL is the liquid mass flow rate. The void fraction in the packed bed microreactor (ε) is determined by

phase and 1,4-dioxane as the organic solvent. The eﬀect of various operating parameters in the packed bed microreactor (e.g., flow rate and ratio, temperature, pressure, catalyst particle size and concentra- tion) on the reaction performance (in terms of the LA conversion and GVL yield) was investigated. A microreactor model was subsequently developed to describe the experimental results and to further identify the rate limiting steps (i.e., gas–liquid mass transfer, external or in- ternal liquid–solid mass transfer, or kinetics). Finally, with the devel- oped model, directions for further reaction optimization in the micro- reactor could be established.

Fig. 1. Schematic representation of the experimental setup with pictures of (i) the upstream and (ii) the downstream gas–liquid slug flow profiles and (iii) the packed bed microreactor.

Several operation conditions were varied in the packed bed micro- reactor to investigate their influence on the mass transfer character- istics and reaction rate during LA hydrogenation over Ru/C. An initial LA concentration of 5 wt% was used in the majority of experiments. A few additional experiments were conducted with 10 wt% LA, which resulted in a lower LA conversion and GVL yield implying that the apparent LA consumption rate in the microreactor is below first order in LA (cf. Section S3 in the Supplementary Material for a more detailed explanation). The influence of gas–liquid flow behavior (i.e., total flow rate and gas to liquid flow ratio), H2 pressure, reaction temperature and catalyst particle size on the measured LA conversion and GVL yield at the outlet of the packed bed microreactor is presented in Fig. 3. The selectivity towards GVL is on the order of ca. 40–60% for most ex- periments depicted (i.e., in the case of not all LA being consumed). Influence of flow rate. The total mixture flow rate was altered (Qtot = 0.27–0.55 mL/min) at a fixed inlet gas to liquid volumetric flow ratio (QG,0/QL,0 = 4.5). The WHSV was kept equal by varying the total mixture flow rate proportionally with the bed length (Lbed = 0.4–0.8 m) or alternatively the total catalyst weight in the bed (wc = 0.45–0.9 g; particle size being ca. 0.45 mm). For a given WHSV, both the LA con- version and GVL yield increased with the increasing flow rate (Fig. 3a). Since parameters that could aﬀect the intrinsic kinetic rate (i.e., tem- perature, concentrations of reactants, WHSV and gas–liquid flow ratio) were not changed, the observed diﬀerence in the reaction performance strongly indicates mass transfer limitations at lower flow rates. In other words, operation at higher flow rates would positively aﬀect the ga- s–liquid [50,69,70] and liquid–solid [71,72] mass transfer coeﬃcients in packed bed microreactors, therewith improving the overall reaction rate (in terms of the increased conversion and yield) if the intrinsic kinetic rate is relatively fast. Influence of gas to liquid flow ratio. The inlet gas to liquid volumetric flow ratio was varied (QG,0/QL,0 = 2.24–6.71) by keeping the total mixture flow rate equal (Qtot = 0.55 mL/min), the bed length being unchanged at 0.8 m (with a catalyst weight of 0.9 g). The measured LA conversion and GVL yield increased with the increasing gas to liquid flow ratio (Fig. 3b). Although the gas–liquid and external liquid–solid mass transfer coeﬃcients in packed bed (micro)reactors are (slightly)

Correlations for estimating Sh as a function of the conventional large packed bed reactor geometry and flow conditions are extensively reported, however, these are limited for packed bed microreactor configurations where the inner channel to particle diameter ratio (dC/ dp) is generally low (e.g., being 3.55–5.33 in this work) [71,72]. Ac- cording to Tidona et al. [71], Sh for (capillary) reactors with low values of dC/dp (< 6.6) is best described by the correlation of Wakao and Funazkri [76]:

To explain the observed reaction performance in the packed bed microreactor, the gas–liquid–solid contact behavior and the associated mass transfer characteristics, the intrinsic kinetics and their roles in determining the overall reaction rate need to be well understood. This eventually would lead to the establishment of a microreactor model that describes the LA hydrogenation results (especially in terms of the LA conversion) under steady state conditions and indicate the direction of improvement in the microreactor design and operation. Gas-liquid flow pattern in the packed bed microreactor. From the re- spective gas and liquid superficial velocities (i.e., jG and jL) of experi- ments in this work, the gas–liquid flow pattern in the packed bed mi- croreactor was predicted to be liquid-dominated slug flow based on the flow map proposed by Al-Rifai et al. [58] (Fig. 4). This flow map was derived based on their experiments with a square microreactor (width × height × length = 300 μm × 600 μm × 190 mm), packed with 1 wt% Au-Pd/TiO2 catalyst (dp = 65 μm) operated under an up- stream slug or (wavy-)annular flow profile at 120 °C and 1 bar [58]. Thus, such flow map is expected applicable to a large extent in the current work, given similar inlet mixing conditions (i.e., an upstream

Fig. 2. Influence of the inverse weight hourly space velocity (1/WHSV) on the measured LA conversion, GVL and HPA yields at the outlet of the packed bed microreactor. The values at 1/WHSV = 0 correspond with the microreactor inlet. Conditions: CLA,0 = 5 wt%, QG,0/QL,0 = 4.5, 12 bar H2, 130 °C, Lbed = 0.8 m, wc = 0.9 g, dp = 0.45 mm. Lines are solely for illustrative pur- poses. Error bars above and hereafter represent the standard deviation based on at least three measurements at diﬀerent times on stream under steady state conditions.

Fig. 4. Influence of the superficial gas and liquid velocities on the gas–liquid flow pattern in the packed bed microreactor. Lines depict the transition boundary between each flow pattern according to the experimental work of Al- Rifai et al. [58].

The measured microreactor performance is further compared with the literature results, where a weight hourly space velocity of the LA itself (WHSV(LA); in gLA/(gcat·h)) was recalculated in order to account for the LA concentration diﬀerence in all works (Table 1). The value of WHSV(LA) was estimated for packed bed reactors or microreactors from

