Continuous flow technology is one of the most valuable advances in the chemical industry that oﬀers several advantages including smaller reactor volume, lower operating cost, and improved mixing performance compared with batch reac- tors.27−31 As a promising tool for heterogeneous reactions, the micropacked bed reactor has shown several advantages such as intensified mass transfer, uniform temperature distribution, and eﬀective suppression of side reactions by the precise control of reaction conditions while maintaining the plug flow character- istics and fixed bed catalyst immobilization.31−38 Su et al.39

trend increasing from 0 to 1.4%, which indicates that a longer residence time is demanded for the hydrogenation of the pyridine ring in 5-AIN. However, it is found that the selectivity of 5-ATHIN increases slightly from 98.7 to 99.3% when the liquid flow rate increases from 0.2 to 0.25 mL/min, indicating that the formation of 5-APHIN is accelerated for a liquid flow rate lower than 0.25 mL/min. The highest yield of 99.3% is achieved at a reaction temperature of 80 °C, a hydrogen pressure of 3.0 MPa, and a liquid flow rate of 0.25 mL/min. For the scaling up of the flow system, we have realized the scaling up of the micropacked bed system to the production capacity of 100−300 kg/day in PharmaBlock Company with the acceptable pressure drop and similar gas−liquid mass transfer. The principles of scaling up are based on the parallel numbering-up and scale-out by suitable dimension enlarging.59

Figure 1. Schematic view of the continuous flow system based on the micropacked bed reactor for the hydrogenation of 5-NTIN.

micropacked bed reactor oﬀers remarkable performance on the improvement of reaction selectivity and eﬃciency. In this work, the hydrogenation of 5-nitroisoquinoline (5- NTIN) is selected as the model reaction and the continuous flow system based on the micropacked bed reactor is

continuous flow system and the scaling up of this continuous system is out of scope in this study. Applications in Relevant Substrates. The synthesis of 5-AIN and 5-ATHIN in the continuous flow system exhibited remarkable performance, and optimized reaction parameters (gas flow rate, hydrogen pressure, temperature, and liquid flow rate) were obtained successfully. Besides, the continuous flow

adopted continuous flow technology with prepassivated Raney Ni as the catalyst for the synthesis of a crizotinib intermediate in the micropacked bed reactor and diﬀerent reaction parameters were screened to improve reaction performance. Compared with the batch reactor, the reaction yield increased from 95 to 99%, while the reaction time decreased significantly from 90 min to 6 s, validating the superiority of continuous flow technology over batch synthesis. Loos et al.40 developed a continuous flow platform with the micropacked bed reactor for the selective hydrogenation of 1-iodo-4-nitrobenzene using the Raney-Co catalyst. Compared with batch reactors, selectivity was greatly improved, and less than 2% dehalogenation product was detected owing to the precise control of residence time. Hence, the continuous flow system based on the

The continuous flow system based on a micropacked bed reactor has been successfully employed for the synthesis of 5- AIN and 5-ATHIN. The eﬀects of the gas flow rate, hydrogen pressure, temperature, and liquid flow rate were determined for the optimization of reaction performance, and maximal yields of 5-AIN and 5-ATHIN were determined to be 99.9 and 99.3%, respectively. Additionally, the continuous flow system was also applied for the synthesis of other heterocyclic nitroaromatics to achieve the selective hydrogenation of the nitro group and the pyridine ring, and all of the yields were obtained at levels of 99 and 97.5%, respectively. The continuous flow system based on a micropacked reactor exhibits remarkable performance and eﬃciency for the hydrogenation of heterocyclic nitroaromatics, and side reactions are eﬀectively suppressed by the precise control of residence time. Nevertheless, further optimization of catalysts and a relevant reaction kinetics model are required for the improvement of selectivity and process scaling up. ■ASSOCIATED CONTENT * sı Supporting Information The Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.oprd.1c00164.

However, the H-cube system is basically packed with powder catalysts, and a pseudo homogeneous liquid is transported through the reactor with a relatively large pressure drop.44 To reduce the pressure drop, the micropacked bed reactor packed with the larger particle catalysts (the diameter around 500 μm) was adopted here.41

Figure 2a illustrates that the conversion of 5-NTIN constantly increases to beyond 99% as the gas flow rate increases beyond 30 sccm, and no byproduct is detected by GC. The results could be attributed to the intensified gas− liquid mass transfer at a higher gas flow rate, accelerating the hydrogenation of 5-NTIN. Therefore, a gas flow rate of 30

The reactant (5-NTIN) was dissolved in the solvent at a specific concentration and the reactor was fully packed with catalysts. The micropacked bed reactor was prewetted by the solution and H2 was transported into the reactor at the required flow rate. Then, the liquid flow rate was set to the required value and system pressure was gradually increased, while simultaneously increasing the system temperature. After waiting for at least three times the liquid residence time, the system reached a steady state and the catalysts approached adsorption equilibrium,45,46 and a sample was collected while excess hydrogen was vented to the atmosphere. Before beginning each experiment, it was necessary to evaluate the activity of the catalyst, which may be varied during the reaction

