Based on the study in the submillimeter microreactor, the experiments were scaled up to a pilot continuous flow platform (di = 4 mm) with a temperature measuring device. Using the optimum conditions in the microchannel, the oil bath temperature was set at 30 °C, the sulfuric acid strength was set at 74%, and the molar ratio was 1.2. When the inner diameter of the reactor was enlarged from 0.8 mm to 4 mm, the mass and heat transfer performance would undoubtedly decrease.34,35 In this condition, the volumetric flow rate began to affect the reaction greatly. To investigate this effect, the flow rate was set at 16 mL·min−1, 32 mL·min−1, 48 mL·min−1, and 64 mL·min−1, respectively. The residence time was maintained unchanged at 2 min by using different numbers of modules. And the temperature profile under different volumetric flow rates was recorded by the real-time temperature monitoring device. The temperature profile under different volumetric flow rates is demonstrated in Figure 9. Thermocouples 1 and 2 indicate the temperature of two preheating modules, and 3, 4, 5, and 6, respectively, indicate the outlet temperature of the reaction module 1, 2, 3, 4. Due to the limitation of the thermostat, it is difficult to maintain at 30 °C for the oil during the whole process. Hence, the temperature of the oil bath fluctuated slightly during the experiment. Especially the third and fourth reaction modules are relatively far from the oil bath machine, and their temperature fluctuations were relatively larger than the front as shown in Figure 9b. As demonstrated in Figure 9a, for the nitration of naphthalene, the highest temperature always appeared in the first reaction module. And with the increase in volumetric flow rate, the highest temperature measured was 36.17 °C, 37.98

increased with the increase in reaction temperature, so the reaction conversion increased. At the same time, the longer the residence time, the greater the influence caused by axial dispersion and the situation of secondary mixing, which was challenging to take into account in the quick assessment. Without considering the radial heat transfer and inlet effect, the highest temperature increase along the reaction channel was only 3.78 °C, and there was almost no overtemperature, which was consistent with the high yield and extremely low dinitration result under the optimal reaction conditions. 3.3. Scale-up of the Microreactor and Compare It with the Batch Reactor. 3.3.1. Reaction in the Mesoscale Flow Reactor. Continuous flow reactor scale-up is mainly achieved through two aspects: numbering-up and sizing-up.33

In this work, the effects of the residence time, reaction temperature, sulfuric acid strength, and molar ratio on the nitration reaction were systematically investigated. When the residence time was 120 s, the reaction temperature was 30 °C, and the sulfuric acid strength was 74%, the highest yield could reach 94.96%. By coupling the energy conservation equation and mass conservation equation, the temperature profile of the reaction fluid along the channel was quickly estimated. The results show that the maximum temperature increase during the reaction process was only 3.78 °C, and there was no overtemperature effect. Then the reaction process was scaled up to a mesoscale flow reactor platform to meet the needs of industrial production. And a comparison of the mesoscale flow reactor and conventional semibatch reactor was conducted. Although the highest temperatures during the reaction of both reactors all reached more than 50 °C, the higher overall heat transfer coefficient of the continuous flow mode could quickly control the reaction temperature below the overtemperature range. While, in the semibatch reaction, the temperature rise of almost the whole dosing stage was above 15 °C. In addition, for the mesoscale flow reactor, the space−time yield could reach 1.575 g·L−1·s−1, which was 2 orders of magnitude higher than that of the batch reactor. When the annual working time was set to 3000 h, the annual output of the mesoscale flow reactor could reach 2643 kg·a−1. The continuous flow mode transfers the reaction from the traditional time-related to the space-related, which makes the whole reaction easier to control, more stable, and more in line with the inherent safety requirements. Therefore, we envisage that compared with conventional batch mode, continuous flow mode is more suitable for fast and highly exothermic reactions. ■ ASSOCIATED CONTENT * sı Supporting Information The Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.oprd.3c00282.

where ρ is the average mass density of the organic and aqueous phases (1.359 g·cm−3), cp is the average specific heat capacity (1.45 J·g−1·K−1), and Q is the average volumetric flow rate (3 mL·min−1.). ΔHr is the molar reaction heat (−129 kJ·mol−1). Z is the channel length. Sr refers to the cross-sectional area of the microreactor channel (0.005026 cm2), T refers to the temperature of the reactants during the reaction, and Tc refers to the temperature of the cooling fluid. X represents the conversion of naphthalene, and di represents the inner diameter of the channel. C0 refers to the initial concentration of naphthalene in the substrate, which can be calculated by eq 4. And U is the overall heat transfer coefficient defined by eq 5.

only 120 s, which made the space−time yield of continuous flow reaction 2 orders of magnitude higher than that of semibatch reaction. At the same working time each year, the continuous flow mode could achieve more than three times the annual output even if its inventory was smaller. However, the reaction yield in the flow mode was not much higher than that in the batch reactor, which may be attributed to the actual temperature increase of the reaction process in the pilot scale flow reactor well exceeding 17.1 °C. As a result, the same dinitration occurred at a shorter overtemperature time. Regarding inherent safety, although the maximum temper- ature during the reaction measured by the two reactors was similar, the continuous flow reactor could quickly reduce the reaction temperature to below 40 °C. Compared with the ultralong overtemperature time of the 2340 s in the batch reactor, the overtemperature time of continuous flow mode was between 30 to 60 s. For the traditional batch reaction, the temperature and conversion of the reaction process are often related to the reaction time and there is always a corresponding conversion and reaction temperature at a specific time. Therefore, the reaction rate can only be seen as a function of time r = f(t) for the batch reaction. However, for the continuous flow reaction, the temperature profile and conversion during the reaction process change along the channel with the evolution of reaction conditions, so the reaction rate of the continuous flow mode can be regarded as spatially related, that is, r = f(z). Changing the reaction rate relative to time to space makes it much easier to deal with the problem of overtemperature and even thermal runaway that may occur during the reaction. For the rapid exothermic reaction, such as the nitration of naphthalene, the channel material of the reaction module with the fastest reaction rate can be replaced with channels with higher thermal conductivity to ensure that the wall temperature in the reaction process can be as consistent as possible with the temperature of the coolant. The diameter of the channel at the initial stage of the reaction can be reduced to obtain a higher overall heat transfer coefficient. Even temperature control of the first reaction module can be carried out separately to achieve process safety for the entire reaction. And it will not affect the subsequent reaction in the channel, which is challenging to accomplish for the batch reactor. Therefore, compared with the batch reactor, the continuous flow reactor is more inherently safe and efficient.

The apparent reaction rate constant depends on only the reaction temperature. At a constant reaction temperature, the coefficient G should be linear to t with a slope kapp. To avoid dinitration and possible back mixing caused by a long residence time as much as possible, the residence time was set as short as possible at 5.5 7, 9, and 11 s. The scatter plot was drawn by obtaining the reaction conversion at different reaction times, and the linear function of the Origin software was used for fitting. The changes of reaction conversion and corresponding parameter G over time are shown in Figure 7. The small hot spot that may occur in the reaction always appeared in the first few seconds of the reaction. Hence, the conversion was high at 5.5 and 7 s and low at 11 s as the concentration decreased. Finally, the apparent rate constant kapp = 0.03925 ± 9.05746E−4 L·mol−1·s−1 at 30 °C was obtained. Mathematica software was used to solve the heat balance equation (eq 3) and the reaction rate equation (eq 7). The oil bath temperature was set at 30 °C. When the molar ratio of dichloroethane to naphthalene was 4:1 according to exper- imental conditions, the reaction conversion and temperature profile along the reactor channel are shown in Figure 8. It can be seen from Figure 8, there is a good agreement between the experimental conversion and the predicted data, indicating that the pseudohomogeneous hypothesis is feasible, and the apparent reaction rate constant obtained can meet the need for a quick estimate. However, when the reaction residence time was 10 s and the reaction residence time was above 80 s, the actual reaction conversion was slightly higher than predicted. This may be because kapp adopted a constant instead of the Arrhenius formula in the reaction kinetic equation. In the early stage of the reaction, the reaction rate

°C, 41.04 °C, and 50.10 °C, respectively. Subsequently, with the decrease in reactant concentration, the reaction rate decreased. The heat transfer capability qtrans exceeded the reaction heat release qr, and the reaction temperature dropped rapidly. As the volumetric flow rate increased, the outlet temperature of the first reaction module decreased for two reasons. First of all, because the volumetric flow rate increased, the highest point of reaction temperature moved backward, the temperature measurement point of the first reaction module would be closer to the highest temperature point, and the cooling time of the reaction liquid was less so that the temperature was higher at a high volumetric flow rate when passing the first temperature measurement point. Second, because of the increase in flow rate, the mass transfer capacity increased, the reaction time limited by mass transfer decreased, and the rapid reaction in the first reaction module released more heat per unit of time, causing a higher reaction temperature. Then the temperature profile of the experiment carried out in the pilot platform was quickly estimated by coupling the heat balance equation with the kinetic equation, as shown in Figure 10. In this condition, Q = 64 mL·min−1.

reached 100%, the selectivity of 1-nitronaphthalene reached 86.85%, and the products of 2-nitronaphthalene and dinitration accounted for 4.30% and 8.86% of the total products, respectively. For a traditional laboratory-scale batch reactor, the total volumetric mass transfer coefficient of a liquid−liquid heterogeneous system ranges from 0.001 to 0.02 s−1.39 However, in the microreactor, the surface area is large, the contact area between the two phases is significantly increased, and the interface refresh frequency is high, which makes the overall mass transfer coefficient of the microreactor 2−3 orders of magnitude larger than that of the traditional tank reactor, usually in the range of 0.05−15 s−1.40 At the low mass transfer coefficient, the relatively high yield was due to the low sulfuric acid strength and the reaction setting temperature, so the dinitration occurred less. However, compared with the performance in the microreactor under the same conditions, the selectivity of 2-nitronaphthalene was close to that of continuous flow mode at 50 °C, and the selectivity of dinitration products was much greater than that of continuous flow mode. This is because the whole dosing process of the semibatch reaction was almost all in the state of overtemperature 15 °C. And for the batch reactor, the mass transfer capacity was challenging to meet the mass transfer demand when the reaction rate was relatively fast, the reaction may be subject to mass transfer control for a longer time, and more 1-nitronaphthalene reacted with nitric acid to produce dinitronaphthalene. 3.3.3. Comparison of Flow and Batch Reactor. Table 1

Pressure (Mpa) 0.135 MPa Total inventory in the reactor (mL) Yield (%) 86.85 87.81 Space-Time-Yield (g·L−1·s−1) 0.0361 1.575 Annual production (kg·a−1)c 684.3

ABSTRACT: In this work, the continuous flow nitration of naphthalene to 1-nitronaphthalene was systematically studied from the microreactor to mesoscale flow reactor and the safety issues during the reaction process were investigated. The effect of the molar ratio of nitric acid to naphthalene, residence time, reaction temperature, and sulfuric acid strength on the reaction process was comprehensively investigated in the microreactor. Under optimal conditions, the reaction yield could reach 94.96%. Due to the rapid exothermic characteristics of nitration, a quick heat transfer assessment was proposed to obtain the temperature profile during optimal conditions. It was found that the maximum overtemperature during the reaction was only 3.78 °C, which was consistent with the high yield under the optimal conditions. Then a scale-up of the microreactor to production was realized by a dimension- enlarging strategy. In the mesoscale flow reactor, the influence of volumetric flow rates was investigated. The annual output of the flow reactor could reach 2643 kg·a−1 while the highest overtemperature inside the reactor channel well exceeded 17.1 °C. In addition, a conventional semibatch experiment was carried out in the batch calorimeter RC1e to explore the reaction's exothermic characteristics. Finally, the performances of the two reactors were compared, showing that the continuous flow reactor had more advantages than the batch reactor in economic benefit and inherent safety. KEYWORDS: nitration, 1-nitronaphthalene, flow chemistry, scale up, heat transfer assessment

As depicted in Figure 10, the predicted highest temperature rise by the quick estimate during the reaction was 22.13 °C. It occurred at the point where the reaction fluid flowed to 120 cm, that is, the middle part of the first reaction module. However, when the reactants mixture flowed through the first thermocouple, its predicted temperature rise was only 11.02 °C, significantly different from the temperature rise of 17.10 °C in the experiment. Then from the highest temperature, the reaction temperature decreased in the same trend in both experiment and prediction, first rapidly and then slowly. The following reasons may cause this phenomenon. The primary reason is that with the increase in inner diameter, the heat transfer efficiency per unit volume of the flow reactor inevitably declined. The reaction process was fast and highly exothermic, and the heat dissipation capacity per unit volume was significantly reduced with the increase in inner diameter; therefore, the outer wall temperature could not be consistent with the coolant temperature. Instead, the outer wall temperature would rise to a higher temperature and the reaction would be further accelerated. At the same time, the temperature difference between the reactant fluid and the channel wall would decrease so that in the stage of rapid heat release the reaction temperature drop rate would slow down. In the case Nu = 3.66, this method is no longer applicable, resulting in a higher temperature than the predicted value at the first temperature measurement point. Second, because the preheating temperature of the pilot platform cannot be kept at 30 °C, the actual reaction temperature was 33 °C, the reaction rate was faster, and the actual reaction temperature rise should be higher. Finally, the temperature rose rapidly in the early stage of the reaction. Based on the Arrhenius formula, the reaction rate rose further and the reaction temperature should be higher than the predicted value. It can be expected that the maximum temperature increase during the actual reaction will be much higher than the 17.10 °C measured by the experiment. The analysis of the products is shown in Figure 11. As depicted in Figure 11a, the reaction conversion showed a significant upward trend from 88.83% to 100% with the increase in the volumetric flow rate. This is because when the production capacity increases with the expansion of the reactor's inner diameter, the mass transfer capacity of the reactor decreases, and the reaction is more likely to be controlled by mass transfer.36 As the volumetric flow rate increased, the kinetic energy carried by the two phases increased, the flow collision became more intense, and the

2.2. Experimental Setup. The experimental setup is demonstrated in Figure 1a. The organic phase was formed by dissolving 0.1 mol of naphthalene in 0.4 mol of dichloroethane. And the aqueous phase was a mixture of water, sulfuric acid, and nitric acid. The organic phase and the aqueous phase were injected through two syringe pumps, respectively. First, the two phases were reacted in a T-shaped mixer made of stainless steel. The main reaction and common side reactions are shown in Figure 1b. Then the mixed liquid reacted in a Teflon microchannel with an inner diameter di = 0.8 mm and an outer diameter do= 1.6 mm. All the channels were immersed in an oil bath to obtain a uniform reaction temperature. The total volumetric flow rate of the mixed fluid was maintained at 3 mL·min−1, and the residence time was regulated by changing the channel length. The molar ratio was controlled by the volumetric flow rate ratio of the two phases. The reaction product from the outlet of the reactor channel was immediately quenched with an ice−water bath. Then the reaction product was quickly separated and washed. HPLC was used to analyze the product. The mesoscale flow reactor platform is depicted in Figure 2.

benzene, showing that slug flow within the microreactor can provide enough effective interfacial area for fast liquid−liquid heterogeneous reaction. Su et al.15 performed nitration of o- nitrotoluene in the packed microreactor. Due to the out- standing dispersion and mass transfer capacity of the packed microreactor, the conversion of nitrotoluene reached up to 94% even when the reaction was less than 3 s. Yu et al.16

mass transfer capacity was enhanced.37 Therefore, the reaction conversion increased. At the same time, the selectivity of 1- nitronaphthalene was also affected by the volumetric flow rate. As the volumetric flow rate increased, the selectivity of 1- nitronaphthalene increased first and then decreased. In general, a higher temperature will increase the possibility of dinitration and decrease the selectivity of the main product. Additionally, dinitration is more likely to occur when the mass transfer capacity is poor. When naphthalene fails to diffuse from the organic phase to the water phase in time, 1-nitronaphthalene preferentially reacts with NO2+ to produce dinitronaphthalene. The increase in the volumetric flow rate increased the mass transfer coefficient of the system, thus enhancing the selectivity of the reaction. However, when the volume flow rate reached 64 mL·min−1, the naphthalene had wholly transformed before the end of the residence time, and only the dinitration could occur before the reaction quenching, so the selectivity showed a downward trend at the end. As demonstrated in Figure 11b, when the reaction was scaled up to the pilot scale flow reactor, the proportion of dinitronaphthalene increased several times compared with the microreactor under the same conditions. According to the study in the microreactor, when the sulfuric acid intensity was 74% and the reaction temperature was below 40 °C most of the time, the yield of dinitronaphthalene should be much lower than 8%, but the experimental result in the mesoscale flow reactor was relatively high. This is consistent with the results of the quick estimate of the temperature profile; the highest temperature rise of the reaction should appear in the first reaction module, and its highest temperature should be far more than 50.10 °C so that the reaction rate in the early stage was faster. And the mass transfer was more limited in the mesoscale flow reactor, so more dinitration occurred. 3.3.2. Reaction in the Batch Reactor. For the nitration of naphthalene, the conventional production method is the semibatch reaction. In this article, the batch calorimeter RC1e was employed to study the heat release characteristics of the reaction. Based on the above research, the jacket temperature Tj was set at 30 °C, the sulfuric acid strength was 74%, and the molar ratio was 1.2. According to the research by Liang et al.,38 in the batch reactor Easymax 102 Micro Reaction Calorimeter, the dosing time was usually in the range of 30−60 min, followed by an hour of holding to ensure the completion of the reaction. In this work, the dosing time and holding time were both set to 40 min. The stirring rate of the whole reaction was controlled at 300 rpm. The whole reaction process in the batch calorimeter is depicted in Figure 12. With the addition of mixed acid, the color of the reaction liquid gradually deepened and stratification began. At the early dosing stage, mixed acid drops dispersed in the organic phase. When dosing for 40 min, a large amount of organic phase was diffused into the water phase for reaction. In the holding stage, the diffusion phenomenon was more prominent. After the end of the reaction, let it stand for 10 min, and the organic phase returned to the upper layer. It can also be seen from the apparent stratification of the reaction that the traditional batch reactor is challenging to meet the mass transfer requirements of heterogeneous fast reactions, such as nitration.

shows a comparison between the batch reactor and the mesoscale flow reactor. For the semibatch reaction, to make sure that the reaction was complete, the whole reaction process was up to 80 min. Even if the holding time was removed, the dosing time reached 40 min. While in continuous flow reaction, the same conversion and a higher selectivity could be achieved within

maximum temperature rise during the reaction was 20.93 °C. It can be seen from the above study that the reaction temperature played a vital role in the selectivity and yield of the reaction. Long-term overtemperature in the batch reactor would increase the reaction risk and reduce the output.

where nA refers to the molar flow rate of naphthalene, Qorganic and QMixed acid refer to the volume flow rate of the organic and aqueous phases, respectively. In this study, C0 = 1.4925 mol· L−1.

where h represents the convective heat transfer coefficient in the microreactor, b represents the wall thickness, and λ represents the thermal conductivity coefficient of the channel wall. The channel is made of PTFE in this work, and its thermal conductivity is 0.26 W·m−1·K−1. And dm represents the average of the pipe's inner and outer diameters. To simplify the calculation, the outer wall temperature was regarded as constant. In this case, Nu = 3.66, the convective heat transfer coefficient h can be calculated by eq 6.

can reach 15%, and the selectivity can reach 94%. In the same year, Hussain et al.21 utilized the outstanding mass and heat transfer capacity of the flow reactor and realized scale-up of the synthesis of selective herbicide pendimethalin at 50 kg/day in the pilot-scale plant. Cui et al.22 measured the kinetics of chlorobenzene nitration based on the precise control of the reaction time in the microreactor, and the results showed that for chlorobenzene nitration, the apparent reaction rate constant was on the order of 10−4 L·mol−1·s−1, and the reaction activation energy was around 25 kJ·mol−1. Many researchers have conducted reaction enhancement or kinetic studies of various nitrations in the microreactor, and some of them realized process scale-up by a numbering up or sizing up approach. However, few of them combined the overtemper- ature during the reaction with the process safety in the continuous flow mode and compared the flow mode with the batch mode by experiments. In this study, the continuous flow nitration of naphthalene to 1-nitronaphthalene was systematically studied, combining process optimization with process safety. First, the influence of key operating parameters including molar ratio, reaction temperature, sulfuric acid strength, and residence time was systematically studied in the microreactor. And by studying the apparent reaction rate constant under the optimal conditions, the energy conservation equation was coupled with the mass conservation equation to quickly estimate the temperature profile of the reaction along the microchannel under the optimal conditions. Then the process was scaled up by the dimension-enlarging methodology while considering process safety, and the temperature profile in the mesoscale flow reactor under optimal conditions was studied with the real- time temperature monitoring system. Finally, a comparison between the semibatch mode and continuous flow mode was carried out to show the superiority of the continuous flow reactor in production efficiency and inherent safety.

3.1. Optimization of Reaction Conditions in the Microreactor. This article systematically studied the influences of the process parameters, such as the molar ratio of nitric acid to naphthalene, reaction temperature, sulfuric acid strength, and residence time, on the reaction conversion and selectivity. Each experiment was repeated three times to guarantee the reliability of the experimental results and obtain the optimum reaction conditions. The reaction temperature was controlled within 30−50 °C, the sulfuric acid strength was 74%−82%, and the residence time was set to 10−120 s. 3.1.1. Effect of Molar Ratio. To study the influence of the molar ratio, the residence time was controlled at 20 s, the temperature was set at 35 °C, and the sulfuric acid strength φ was increased from 70% to 78% to ensure the feasibility of the study. Figure 3 shows the experimental results. According to Figure 3a, as the molar ratio increased, the conversion increased sharply. For nitration, aromatic com- pounds diffuse through the organic phase into the aqueous phase and nitrate with NO2+. With the molar ratio increased, the concentration of NO2+ in the aqueous phase significantly increased, increasing the reaction rate. Since the mass transfer capacity of the microreactor was excellent, the reaction was still controlled by the reaction kinetics with the increase of NO2+ in the aqueous phase. When enough aromatic compounds could enter the aqueous phase, the reaction conversion increased significantly under the same residence time. It can be seen from Figure 3b that the selectivity decreased with the increase in the molar ratio. For the mononitration of naphthalene, the main side reactions consist of the dinitration and the generation of 2-nitronaphthalene. The former is a consecutive side reaction, while the latter is a parallel side

