The eﬀects of the residence time on the microreactor STY and the yield of PC are shown in Fig. 4. The experiments are per- formed at 140 °C and 160 °C, HETBAB concentration of 11.09 mol% in PO, pressure of 3.5 MPa, and the molar ratio of CO2/PO of 1.41. The residence time can be defined as the total volume of the micromixer and the capillary reactor divided by the total volumetric flow rate of the gas and liquid under the operating conditions. The flow rate of the liquid and the CO2 are varied in the range of 0.5–2.1 mL min−1 and 155–660 mL min−1 (STP), respectively. Experiments for varying the resi- dence time are done both by changing the gas and the liquid flow rates, but the volume ratio of the gas and liquid phase is kept constant at 14 in all the runs. The results show that the yield of PC increases and the STY decreases with the increase in the residence time, while the selectivity of PC remains almost constant (>99.5%). During Fig. 3 Eﬀect of the reaction temperature on the yield and STY. Reaction con- ditions: 4.47 mol% HETBAB in PO; CO2/PO (mol/mol), 1.19; 3.5 MPa; 14 s.

Propylene oxide (PO), methanol, and n-butanol (analytic grade) were purchased from Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co. Ltd. Ionic liquid catalyst (HETBAB), which can be dissolved in PO, was obtained from Beijing ZhongKe Anyln Technology Co. Ltd. Carbon dioxide with a purity of 99.99% was commercially available. The schematic of the experimental setup is shown in Fig. 2. The microreactor system used in this study includes a micro- mixer and a spiral capillary reactor. The micromixer is fabri- cated in the stainless steel plate using micromachining technology (FANUC KPC-30a) in our CNC Machining Center. The gas distributor microchannels are located at the back of the micromixer, and the liquid distributor microchannels are at the right side. They are connected by some through-holes with 500 μm diameters in the microreactor. The channels of the micromixer are rectangular with a 600 μm (width) × 300 μm (depth) cross-section. The internal channel volume of

liquid catalyst. The microreactor performance is evaluated by studying the eﬀects of diﬀerent operating conditions, including reaction temperature, operating pressure, residence time, molar ratio of CO2/PO,

the micromixer is about 0.31 mL. The spiral capillary reactor located in the oil bath is regarded as the residence time unit for regulating the reaction time. The internal diameter and the length of the spiral capillary reactor are 1.0 mm and 2.5 m, respectively. Thus, the volume of the spiral capillary reactor is about 1.96 mL. The high purity CO2 flows through the gas mass flow con- troller and is mixed with the liquid feed in the micromixer. The liquid feed (HETBAB in PO) is pumped into the reaction system by a high precision digital piston pump (Series II, Chrom. Tech. Inc.). After mixing of the gas–liquid phases in the micromixer, the cycloaddition of PO and CO2 occurs in the spiral capillary reactor. Then, the gas–liquid reaction mixture is separated in the gas–liquid separator. The liquid product sample is collected in a glass vessel through the needle valve and is diluted by methanol. The yield of PC was analyzed using a gas chromatograph (GC, Agilent 7890A) equipped with a flame-ionized detector using n-butanol as the internal stan- dard. Every run must be repeated at least twice to ensure the reproducibility of experimental data. During experimental pro- cesses, the operating pressure in the microreactor system is regulated by the pressure regulating valve and the back pressure regulating valve. For ensuring the pressure stability of the system, some tail gas must be continuously released through the back pressure regulating valve in all runs.

To study the eﬀect of pressure on the yield and STY, exper- iments were carried out in the range of 1.0–4.0 MPa at 11.09 mol% and 4.47 mol% HETBAB in PO. The residence time is maintained at 14 s. The molar ratio of CO2 and PO is kept constant by varying the gas and liquid flow rates at the same time. The actual gas/liquid volume ratios are changed from 65 to 16 for 4.47 mol% and from 52 to 13 for 11.09 mol% HETBAB in PO, respectively. Fig. 5 and 6 show the influence of CO2 pressure on the yield and STY at 160 °C and 170 °C in the microreactor. The PC yield increases with increasing pressure from 1.0 to 3.5 MPa. The extent of the increase for 11.09 mol%

The cycloaddition of propylene oxide (PO) and CO2 was investi- gated in a microreactor with an IL catalyst. The microreactor performance was evaluated by studying the eﬀects of diﬀerent operating conditions, such as, the reaction temperature, the operating pressure, the residence time, the molar ratio of CO2/ PO, and the catalyst concentration in PO. The experimental results indicate that the process can be intensified by increasing the reaction temperature, operating pressure, and catalyst concentration in the microreactor. The residence time can be dramatically reduced from several hours in a conventional stirred reactor to about 10 s in a microreac- tor. Even though the mass transfer performance of CO2 and PO can be improved in the microreactor compared to conven- tional reactors, the reaction is still aﬀected by gas–liquid mass transfer. The yield of PC at 3.5 MPa can reach 99.8% at a resi- dence time of 14 s. The TOF value is varied in the range of 3000 to 14 000 h−1 in these experiments, whereas the value is only ca. 60 h−1 in a conventional stirred reactor. The STY or the overall reaction rate ranges from 650 to 4500 gprod. (gcat. h)−1, which is much larger than the value [ca. 19 gprod. (gcat. h)−1] of the conventional stirred reactor. The present study has demon- strated the concept of ‘Novel Process Windows', which was pro- posed by Prof. Hessel. A highly eﬃcient synthesis of PC, catalyzed by an IL, has been carried out in a microreactor.

To elucidate the impact of the molar ratio of CO2/PO, the reac- tion tests are conducted over a range of liquid flow rates (0.14–0.60 mL min−1), whereas the gas flow rate is about 200 mL min−1 (STP) in this set of experiments. The reaction temperature is varied in the range of 140–190 °C. The pressure and the catalyst concentration in PO are kept constant. In these experiments, the actual gas–liquid flow rate ratio is about 15–60. So the change in liquid flow rate does not change the residence time significantly. Fig. 8 and 9 show the eﬀect of CO2/PO on the yield and STY. According to the gas and liquid flow rates in these runs, the flow pattern in the microchannel is a slug flow.36 For a given gas flow rate, the liquid slug length increases, whereas the gas slug length decreases with the increase in liquid flow rate or the decrease in CO2/PO.38 As the rate of convective mass transfer from gas slug to liquid slug increases, the gas–liquid mass transfer is intensified in the slug flow pattern with a decrease in the CO2/PO.34,39 The amount of PO in CO2 becomes larger when the CO2/PO ratio rises, which aﬀects the reaction in two opposite ways. On the

mass transfer and the intrinsic kinetics perspectives are discussed. The results show that the residence time can be dramatically reduced from several hours in a conventional stirred reactor to about 10 s in a

microreactor. The yield of PC at 3.5 MPa can reach 99.8% at a residence time of 14 s. The turnover fre-

generally performed at very low temperatures (<−50 °C) in batch reactors. Kawaguchi et al. investigated this reaction at temperatures between −20 to 20 °C in a microreactor.31 The results showed that the microreactor yields were much higher than the batch yields (from 20% to 89%) at a very short resi- dence time of 0.01 s. Trachsel et al. found that the reaction rate could be improved from 0.004 mol gcat. −1 min−1 at ambient conditions to 0.046 mol gcat. −1 min−1 at 51 bar and 71 °C for the hydrogenation of cyclohexene.32 This means that the multiphase reaction performance can be enhanced by increasing temperatures, pressures, and/or concentrations compared to operating conditions in conventional stirred reactors. In the present work, the cycloaddition of PO and CO2 to PC is chosen as a model reaction and was investigated in the microreactor using the HETBAB ionic liquid catalyst. The main aim is to verify the feasibility of the cycloaddition of PO and CO2 to PC in the microreactor, decrease the reaction time from hours in batch reactors to seconds, and improve the process eﬃciency (TOF and STY) by process intensification.

