Furthermore, continuous flow reactors have larger surface to volume ratios, enabling improved heat management.8 These reactor systems have small volumes, and therefore, less energy is needed for processing.9 Continuous flow systems have been demonstrated to improve control over the reaction conditions (e.g., temperature and pressure).10 Continuous flow tubular microreactors or mesoreactors are the most commonly used systems in chemical laboratories since they are widely commercially available and easy to assemble in a plug-and- play manner.11

28.5 g/h and a potential throughput of 684 g/day. Considering the 19 mL of total reactor volume, a space-time yield of 1.5 kg L−1 h−1 was achieved. Our main goal was to demonstrate the viability of performing this type of chemistry within an SDR system. We believe that the pulsation from the syringe pumps could be partially responsible for the changes in pressure, as the dosing of reagents fluctuated, leading to small changes in reagent stoichiometry. However, these changes in pressure did not compromise the conversion of 2. Implementing mass flow meters would enable more careful monitoring of the reagent stoichiometry.55 These data could then be used to help gain information regarding the pump performance and pressure buildup. The use of gear pumps or HPLC pumps would also reduce the pulsation effects. Moreover, when scaling up the application to full industrial size, the diameter of the piping and connectors will need to increase as well, further limiting the possibility of particle accumulation. For a continuous manufacturing application, this would thus give confidence that this solid-forming process can run uninterruptedly in flow during the entire length of a production campaign. The resulting space-time yield of 1.5 kg L−1 h−1 in the lab-scale SpinPro R10 can be readily translated linearly to a scaled-up industrial process because of the hydrodynamic and geometric self-similarity that underlies the engineering and design principles of the entire SpinPro platform. Moreover, qualitatively similar yields and selectivities are obtained when the following parameters are kept constant when scaling up: Reynolds number, shear rate ratio between the rotor−stator gap and the disc radius, and heat transfer.45−47 Mixing behavior can be predicted and compared using a flow regime map to ensure similar results at different scales. In a SpinPro R300, for example, this will lead to a production rate of 3 of 8.28 kg/day using a reactor volume of 230 mL. In summary, we describe the development of a diazotization and azo coupling within a dynamic spinning disc system. The reactor system enables the process to be performed in a safer and more controlled manner compared to batch systems. In addition, this approach enables the use of water as the sole solvent for preparing azo dyes. In particular, the system facilitated the handling of in situ solid product within the reactor system due to the high shear forces present. The product was isolated by simple filtration and drying. The system was successfully demonstrated in a long run. In a very recent review by Stephens and co-worker, they highlighted successful step-up of a continuous flow process for azo generation has not been reported.56

The mixing within a flow reactor can be categorized as either passive or active, whereby the mixing relies on diffusion and pumping energy or provision of other external energy to achieve mixing, respectively.12 Examples of passive mixing devices include Yand T-pieces, tubing, multilaminating, and split-and-recombine.13 The management of solids within continuous flow systems is a major challenge.14 The main disadvantage of using continuous flow systems that rely on

Christopher A. Hone −Center for Continuous Flow Synthesis and Processing, Research Center Pharmaceutical Engineering GmbH, A-8010 Graz, Austria; Institute of Chemistry, NAWI Graz, University of Graz, A-8010 Graz, Austria;

orcid.org/0000-0002-5939-920X; Email: christopher.hone@rcpe.at C. Oliver Kappe −Center for Continuous Flow Synthesis and Processing, Research Center Pharmaceutical Engineering GmbH, A-8010 Graz, Austria; Institute of Chemistry, NAWI Graz, University of Graz, A-8010 Graz, Austria;

worker extended this work with a comprehensive optimization study.31 The authors used Little Things Factory (LTF) microreactors with a residence time of 2.4 min to achieve high conversion values. Subsequently, the protocol was scaled up to a mesoscale reactor (i.d. 1.5 mm), but a decrease in conversions was observed. Low concentrations and N,N- dimethylformamide (DMF) as a cosolvent were necessary to achieve a homogeneous liquid system amenable to the reactor systems. DMF should be avoided due to its potential reproductive toxicity.34 There is regulation from the European Commission restricting the use of DMF for manufacture, which started from December 12, 2023.35 A further limitation was that relatively limited throughput was obtained. Baxendale and co-workers made an interesting advance in handling aryl diazonium salts and solid product formation within a dynamic Coflore agitated tube reactor (ATR).36 In that study, the researchers achieved kilogram-quantity continuous production of triacetic acid lactone solid. Herein we outline our efforts in developing a protocol for a diazotization reaction and subsequent azo coupling using an SDR system (Scheme 1b). We selected the diazotization of 2,4-dimethylaniline (1) followed by an azo coupling with 2- naphthol (2) to form the dye Sudan II (3) as a model system (Scheme 2). The main focus was to achieve high conversion values while facilitating the processing of solid product formation. In addition, we were interested in using water as the sole reaction solvent due to its excellent environmental credentials.37−39 The use of water as the only solvent could

handling over more extended periods due to settling in the outlet tube inside the reactor. To address this issue, we aimed to reduce the mean particle size by preventing agglomeration and pressure buildup, thus enabling more stable processing. To avoid blockages, we further modified our setup by introducing check valves at all the pumps and by using a 1/4 in. connector and tubing at the outlet. The monitoring of the pressure readings during operation showed a variable pressure profile. A couple of times during the run, the pressure increased to 2.5 bar, presumably due to partial channel blockages. Gratifyingly, this pressure was released after a certain amount of time, returning the system to its normal level. Pump pulsation can result in a change in the reagent stoichiometry. In contrast to the earlier results, measuring the particle size distribution revealed a single distinct VMD value of ∼38 ± 6 μm (average based on measurements for 12 fractions) over the entire experiment (see SI section 6.4.2). The long run demonstrated that the protocol was stable for 120 min and afforded 55.9 g of 3 (98% isolated yield) after filtration and drying. This value corresponds to a throughput of

passive mixing is the usage or generation of solids during the reaction. Clogging or reactor fouling is challenging to handle in these systems when attempting to run smooth and continuous operation.15,16 Moreover, solid accumulation can cause pressure buildup within the reactor system, which can have profound safety implications and result in process failure. Efforts to prevent blockages can lead to somewhat cumbersome cleaning and deblocking cycles or result in redevelopment of the chemistry or the avoidance of using a continuous process altogether. The benefit of active mixing devices is that they have the ability to suspend solids and thus prevent fouling from taking place. Continuous flow stirred tank reactors (CTSRs) provide active mixing through agitators capable of suspending solids.17−19 Oscillatory flow reactors use time-pulsing flow due to a periodic change of pumping energy, resulting in active mixing.20,21 Agitated reactors comprise a reaction block which is mounted on a laterally shaking motor.22 Another approach for handling solids is to use rotor−stator technology.23 The high rotation speeds of the rotor and the small gap between the rotor and the reactor housing result in very high shear forces. A Taylor vortex flow (TVF) reactor system comprises a static cylinder shell which contains a rotating cylinder, whereby the shear is generated in the annular volume.24,25 Stator−rotor spinning disc reactor (SDR) technology uses the very high shear forces generated by the rotation of the discs.26 The motion within these active mixing systems counteracts the solid deposition and prevents blocking of the flow channels.

Dominik Polterauer −Center for Continuous Flow Synthesis and Processing, Research Center Pharmaceutical Engineering GmbH, A-8010 Graz, Austria; Institute of Chemistry, NAWI Graz, University of Graz, A-8010 Graz, Austria;

Since the early 2000s, several research groups have developed diazotization protocols using continuous flow reactor techniques to avoid isolating the unstable diazonium intermediates. Microreactors and mesoscale reactors based on passive mixing were used.5,27−33 de Mello and co-workers reported the first microflow synthesis of azo dyes, but only low conversions were achieved (Scheme 1a).28 Watts and co-

