Flow rate (mL/min)

Flow rate (mL/min)

Flow rate (mL/min) 0.03 0.7 Temperature (°C)

Microreactor set up; continuous flow synthesis of azo compounds Using three (5 mL) SGE glass syringes and PTFE tubing (i.d. 0.5 mm, length: 340.2 mm connecting from the first reactor plate to the second reactor plate and 380.7 mm connecting from the second reactor plate to the sample collection bottle) reactant solutions A (amine + HCl solution), B (sodium nitrite solution) and C (coupler) were fe

The effect of reaction parameters i.e. flow rate, temperature and pH on azo coupling reactions in the synthesis of azo com- pounds under acidic and alkaline reaction conditions in LTF- MS microreactors however, was successfully demonstrated. We therefore went ahead to fully make good use of the benefits that microreactor technology offers to organic syntheses such as this one by performing both re

Abstract In this paper, a micro-fluidic optimized process for the continuous flow synthesis of azo compounds is presented. The continuous flow synthesis of Sudan II azo dye was used as a model reaction for the study. At found optimal azo coupling reaction temperature and pH an investigation of the optimum flow rates of the reactants for the diazotization and azo coupling reactions in Little Things

Although various groups have investigated similar reactions in microreactors, to the best of our knowledge, there is no detailed study combining the effect of pH, temperature and flow rate on the azo coupling reaction. In addition, industry always ques- tions why reactions are done in micro structured reactors rather than simple tubular reactors. As such, we extended this investi- gation to study 

The continuous flow scaled-up synthesis of 2-naphtholic, phenolic and similar azo compounds in LTF-MS microreactors In the synthesis of azo compounds, there is usually formation of a precipitate, which renders this reaction problematic in microreactors due to blockages. The geometrical specifications of the microchannel are very important, so much that these dictate the concentration of the reagen

It was found that the synthesis of these compounds in a simple set up comprising of PTFE tubing (i.d. 1.5 mm) provided comparable conversions to those attained in the LTF-MS microreactors despite the geometrical specifications of the two reactor systems being quite different. It should also be noted that the PTFE tubing is much cheaper than the glass LTF-MS and at the internal diameter of the PTFE

coupling component solutions) were fed to an LTF-MS (Volume: 0.2 mL, channel size: 1 mm, geometry: 115 × 60 × 6 mm) microreactor plate (Figure 6). The microreactor plate was dipped into a temperature control bath and delivery of the reactants to the plates was enabled by two Chemyx fusion 100 classic syringe pumps.

