Early studies have used a pressure drop ratio ΔP̃B between 25 and 50 to distribute the flows in a microchannels reactor.17,18,22

For highly exothermic and mass-transfer-limited reactions, microstructured reactors are attractive devices to improve safety, reduce waste, and enhance product selectivity, as well as conversion.1−5 For a single microchannel reactor, the flow rate is often in the range of mL/min, which is suited for a g/h production rate. Scale-up is required to reach kg/h and ton/h production rates. A scale-up route in microchannel reactors can be achieved in three consecutive steps. First, the microchannel cross-sectional dimensions are scaled up while maintaining the mass and heat transfer properties of the single microchannel.6,7

However, such a large pressure drop ratio makes the barrier- based flow distributor an unattractive solution for number-up. The large energy consumption and lowering of the reactor operating window are some of the reasons for that unattractiveness. The authors have found that ΔP̃B can be reduced to a value of 4 by following a specific design methodology.23 That design methodology specifies cut-oﬀ values of the maximum allowed diameter and temperature deviations in diﬀerent parts of the reactor to keep flow nonuniformity below an acceptable limit.24 The outcome of that design methodology led to the "barrier-based micro-/

(1) Kockmann, N.; Roberge, D. M. Harsh Reaction Conditions in Continuous-Flow Microreactors for Pharmaceutical Production. Chem. Eng. Technol. 2009, 32, 1682−1694. (2) Charpentier, J. C. In the Frame of Globalization and Sustainability, Process Intensification, a Path to the Future of Chemical and Process Engineering (Molecules into Money). Chem. Eng. J. 2007, 134, 84−92. (3) Wiles, C.; Watts, P. Continuous Flow Reactors: A Perspective. Green Chem. 2012, 14, 38−54. (4) Hessel, V.; Cortese, B.; de Croon, M. H. J. M. Novel Process Windows - Concept, Proposition and Evaluation Methodology, and Intensified Superheated Processing. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2011, 66, 1426− 1448. (5) Anxionnaz, Z.; Cabassud, M.; Gourdon, C.; Tochon, P. Heat exchanger/reactors (HEX reactors): Concepts, technologies: State-of- the-art. Chem. Eng. Process. 2008, 47, 2029−2050. (6) Kockmann, N.; Gottsponer, M.; Roberge, D. M. Scale-Up Concept of Single-Channel Microreactors from Process Development to Industrial Production. Chem. Eng. J. 2011, 167, 718−726. (7) Hornung, C. H.; Mackley, M. R.; Baxendale, I. R.; Ley, S. V. A Microcapillary Flow Disc Reactor for Organic Synthesis. Org. Process Res. Dev. 2007, 11, 399−405. (8) Hessel, V.; Knobloch, C.; Loewe, H. Review on Patents in Microreactor and Micro Process Engineering. Recent Pat. Chem. Eng. 2008, 1, 1−16. (9) Lerou, J. J.; Tonkovich, A. L.; Silva, L.; Perry, S.; McDaniel, J. Microchannel Reactor Architecture Enables Greener Processes. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2010, 65, 380−385. (10) Roberge, D. M.; M, G.; Eyholzer, M.; Kockmann, N. Industrial Design, Scale-Up, and Use of Microreactors. Chim. Oggi 2009, 27, 8− 11. (11) Schenk, R.; Hessel, V.; Hofmann, C.; Loewe, H.; Schoenfeld, F. Novel Liquid-Flow Splitting Unit Specifically Made for Numbering-Up of Liquid/Liquid Chemical Microprocessing. Chem. Eng. Technol. 2003, 26, 1271−1280. (12) Saber, M.; Commenge, J. M.; Falk, L. Heat-Transfer Characteristics in Multi-Scale Flow Networks with Parallel Channels. Chem. Eng. Process. 2009, 49, 732−739. (13) Nieves-Remacha, M. J.; Kulkarni, A. A.; Jansen, K. F. Gas-Liquid Flow and Mass Transfer in an Advanced-Flow Reactor. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2013, 52, 8996−9010. (14) Chambers, R. D.; Fox, M. A.; Holling, D.; Nakano, T.; Okazoe, T.; Sandford, G. Elemental Fluorine, Part 16. Versatile Thin-Film Gas- Liquid Multi-Channel Microreactors for Effective Scale-Out. Lab Chip 2005, 5, 191−198. (15) Huebner, S.; Bentrup, U.; Budde, U.; Lovis, K.; Dietrich, T.; Freitag, A.; Kupper, L.; Jahnisch, K. An Ozonolysis-Reduction Sequence for the Synthesis of Pharmaceutical Intermediates in Microstructured Devices. Org. Process Res. Dev. 2009, 952−960. (16) Metzke, D. Chemical Micro Process Technology: The Catalouge - Falling Film Microreactor; Institut fur Mikrotechnik Mainz: Mainz, Germany, 2013 (a technical manual, www.imm-mainz.de). (17) Losey, M. W.; Jackman, R. J.; Firebaugh, S. L.; Schmidt, M. A.; Jensen, K. F. Design and Fabrication of Microfluidic Devices for Multiphase Mixing and Reaction. J. Microelectromech. Syst. 2002, 11, 709−717. (18) De Mas, N.; Gunther, A.; Kraus, T.; Schmidt, M. A.; Jensen, K. F. Scaled-Out Multilayer Gas-Liquid Microreactor with Integrated Velocimetry Sensors. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2005, 44, 8997−9013. (19) Kashid, M.; Gupta, A.; Renken, A.; Kiwi-Minsker, L. Numbering-Up and Mass Transfer Studies of Liquid-Liquid Two- Phase Microstructured Reactors. Chem. Eng. J. 2010, 158, 233−240. (20) Tonomura, O.; Tominari, T.; Kano, M.; Hasebe, S. Operation Policy for Micro Chemical Plants with External Numbering-Up Structure. Chem. Eng. J. 2008, 135, S131−S137.

factor is that bubble coalescence occurs and the specific interfacial area varies considerably between the parallel microchannels. Because in this experimental setup it was not possible to measure slug and bubble lengths and flow nonuniformity, there was no possible way to study any of these two factors independently. When experiments were done without any reaction, the absolute value of slug and bubble lengths aﬀected flow distribution in the BMMR.25 Due to the sharp corner in the BMMR and when the slug length reduces to less than the channel diameter, which is possible in the above given reaction conditions, bubble coalescence occurred, which aﬀected the pressure drop and the flow distribution consecutively. Additionally, the reaction seems to depend on the gas-to-liquid mass transfer as already observed in the batch experiments. Thus, if any bubble coalescence occurred during the reaction in the BMMR, it will change the specific interfacial area and the mass transfer, resulting in diﬀerent reaction performance even at the fixed flow rates of a single microchannel reactor. Because it was not possible to quantify the eﬀect of specific interfacial area and the residence time on the reaction performance, it is not possible to generalize that flow distribution in the BMMR under reactive flow conditions and high flow rates is not eﬀective. More detailed reaction experiments in the BMMR under reactive flow conditions are needed to explicitly validate that. From the above analysis, it can be clearly stated that the reaction performance of the single channel and the eight reaction channels are aﬀected by the flow nonuniformity as well as by the slug and bubble lengths. Therefore, selective

distribution. The hydraulic resistances are microchannels with dimensions smaller than those of the reaction microchannels and are placed between the single phase flow distributors and the parallel microchannels as shown in Figure 1. The hydraulic resistances can be quantified in a generic way as ΔP̃B as given in eq 1. It is the average pressure drop over the barrier channels ΔPB divided by the average pressure drop over the corresponding mixers and reaction channels ΔPC. Because ΔP̃B is a ratio of pressure drops, it is dimensionless.

flow is close to an ideal plug flow reactor, which minimizes axial dispersion and back-mixing.36,37 All of this explains the increased reaction rate in the BMMR compared to that in the batch reactor. Second, the trend of the reactant and products is the same for the single channel reaction and from the eight collected reaction channels. This means that the reaction performance was maintained when the multiphase flow was numbered-up in the BMMR under reactive conditions. Third, there was no systematic diﬀerence between the concentrations of the single channel to those of the eight channels. The results from the single channel in comparison to those of the eight channels vary randomly. The last observation is the diﬀerence in performance between the single channel and the eight channels seems to depend on the gas and liquid flow rates. To demonstrate the eﬀect of gas and liquid flow rates, the reaction performance at fixed liquid flow rate and varied gas flow rates is shown in Figure 10. Parts a, b, and c refer to three experiments done at diﬀerent total liquid flow rates of 7.5, 15, and 30 mL/min, respectively. As the gas flow rate increases, the gas bubble length increases, the slug length decreases, and the residence time decreases. Such an influence on the reaction performance is correctly observed in Figure 10a,b. However, in Figure 10c, the reaction performance seems random even for the single channel. The worse reaction performance at high gas and liquid flow rates can be explained by two factors. The first is that the flow distribution may become ineﬀective, resulting in varied residence time in the eight parallel microchannels. The second

millichannels reactor" (BMMR), which was presented in Al- Rawashdeh et al.25 and is shown in Figure 1. The BMMR is a modular reactor for conducting a multiphase (gas−liquid) reaction in eight parallel microor millichannels at a pressure of up to 20 bar and a temperature of up to 200 °C with a total liquid flow rate up to 150 mL/min. The BMMR was experimentally verified for varied gas and liquid flow rates, liquid viscosities, surface tensions, and reaction channel dimensions and materials.25 Gas−liquid channeling was prevented, and a flow uniformity of more than 90% was reached. However, no reaction study was made using the BMMR. In this paper, the eﬀect of reactive flow conditions on the concept of number-up in the BMMR is evaluated. The selective reduction of triple bonds and double bonds is an important transformation in synthetic organic chemistry.26

but number-up remains mostly restricted to the laboratory scale with a few reporting at the pilot scale14,15 such as the stacked falling film microreactor.16 This is due to the complexity and expenditure needed for an adequate number-up with an equal distribution of the gas and liquid flows over multiple microchannels.17−21

channel are compared to concentrations from the eight reaction channels combined. For more than 95% of the results, the diﬀerence in concentrations between the single channel and the eight collected channels remains within ±10%. Predicting what the corresponding flow nonuniformity is that leads to this percentage is not straightforward. This is because the reaction depends, in addition to the residence time, on the interfacial area, which could not be estimated because no information could be obtained about the slug and bubble lengths in this setup. Additionally, concluding whether the ±10% diﬀerence is acceptable will depend on the final application. This margin was obtained before any optimization of the reactor. It is expected that this marginal diﬀerence can be reduced by assuring that no slug and bubble coalescence occurs, and the slug and bubble lengths remain larger than the channel diameter. For example, this can be done by avoiding the transport channels in the BMMR setup (see Figure 2) and by placing the mixer in the reaction channel. Overall, the BMMR successfully demon- strated its potential for numbering up gas−liquid Taylor flow under reactive conditions. ■CONCLUSIONS This paper aimed at providing a proof of concept of the capability of the barrier-based micro-/millichannel reactor (BMMR) to number-up gas−liquid Taylor flow under reactive flow conditions. The hydrogenation of phenylacetylene over a homogeneous catalyst [Rh(NBD)(PPh3)2]BF4 was used as a model reaction. First, kinetic parameters were estimated for the reaction by extending the work of Esteruelas et al.29 The kinetic model was capable of predicting the reaction behavior for a range of catalyst concentrations (0.48−1.24 g/L), hydrogen pressures (5−15 bar), and phenylacetylene concentrations (75−200 mol/ m3). The kinetic model predicted the experiments within an accuracy of 20%. Part of the catalyst proved ineﬀective when it was mixed with the solvent. The catalyst deactivated during the

