in the micro-packed bed reactor, which is one order of magnitude higher than that of batch systems (234.57 mol m−3 h−1) and about 2–5 times higher than those of flowing tube reactors (734.56–3789.5 mol m−3 h−1) at a milder temperature. The remarkable improvement in space–time yields and reaction rate results from the greatly increased gas–liquid mass transfer in the micro-packed bed.30

The homogeneous solution of PhCH2OH and the Cu/TEMPO catalyst system were dissolved in acetonitrile at room temperature and then protected by nitrogen. The schematic overview of this microreactor system is shown in Fig. 1. The liquid was delivered by a metering pump (Eldex Laboratories, USA) at the flow rate range of 0.01–10 mL min−1. The O2–N2 gas mixture from the regulated cylinder was fed via a thermal mass flow controller (Bronkhorst Ltd., UK) at the flow rate range of 0–200 sccm, where sccm denotes mL min−1 at the standard condition of 0 °C and 1 atm. The outlet of the mass flow controller was connected to a safety valve to automatically release the gas from the tubing when the pressure exceeded 150 bar. The gas and liquid were premixed in a T-mixer and then entered the micro-packed bed (the inner diameter 4.35 mm and outer diameter 6.35 mm) packed with the inert glass beads. Glass beads with a size of 300–350 μm were loaded (void fraction of 37%) in order to reduce the gas molecular diffusion length and improve the mass transfer performance. The outlet of the packed bed was connected to a back-pressure regulator to control the system pressure.

Over the past decade, continuous flow microreactors for aerobic oxidation have attracted attention because of their high production efficiency, controllability, and environmental sustainability over batch or semi-batch reactors.15,16 Much shorter residence time and consequently shrank equipment size are further advantages of the novel reactors.17 Jensen et al.18 demonstrated homogeneously catalysed alcohol oxidations in a thin-layer membrane reactor and the residence time required to reach full conversion was around 1 min with optimized conditions. Vanoye et al.19 evaluated the Cu/TEMPO catalytic system in a gas–liquid segmented flow PFA tubing and indicated that benzyl alcohol was selectively converted to benzaldehyde (conversion >98%) with the residence time of about 12 min. By contrast, aerobic alcohol oxidations in the conventional batch reactors often take several hours to achieve similar yields as in the continuous flow reactors.11 Therefore, these studies revealed that continuous flow microreactors provide excellent gas– liquid mass transfer to accelerate the rate of mass-transfer limited reactions. Additionally, microreactors represent an attractive tool for kinetics measurements,20–22 owing to their excellent mixing performance and improved process control. According to the published works,11,23,24 the kinetics of Cu/

Effect of gas and liquid flow rate. The process of homogeneous catalytic benzyl alcohol aerobic oxidation is carried out by contacting gas and liquid in the micro-packed bed reactor. The gas and liquid flow rate have a substantial influence on the hydrodynamics in the reactor.35 In the present study, four micro-packed beds with the same internal diameter (4.35 mm) and different lengths (5; 10; 15; 20 cm) were designed to achieve the same flow rate in different

residence times. The effect of gas and liquid flow rates on the product concentration was investigated at a fixed gas– liquid volume flow rate ratio (64.7 : 1). As shown in Fig. 6, with increasing residence time, the concentration of benzaldehyde increases. Furthermore, as the liquid flow rate increased from 1 to 1.6 ml min−1, the reaction rate remained nearly unchanged. This suggests that the impact of liquid and gas flow rates (constant gas–liquid flow rate ratio) can be negligible within the scope of the experiments. The same phenomenon is also found under higher pressure (ESI† Fig. S3), where the increased benzaldehyde yield can be obtained. In addition to accelerating gas–liquid mass transfer, another major advantage of the micro-packed bed reactor is that individual sets of reaction conditions can be screened rapidly, not only for process optimization, but also for kinetics investigation. Furthermore, all the subsequent kinetics experiments were studied efficiently under optimized experimental conditions.

of hazardous chemicals and the short diffusion distance, micro-reactors provide an approach to address safety issues and accelerate gas–liquid mass transfer for the aerobic oxidation process. In this work, a

Batch 1.0 0.1 r.t. 234.57b,c 1.0 Bubble column 1.0 0.5 332.90 1.4 Tube reactor (coil) 5.0 0.4 r.t. 734.56c 3.1 Tube reactor (vertical) 3.2 4.0 3789.5 16.2 This work Micro-packed bed 3.2 0.4 7318.4 31.2

Fig. 1 Experimental setup of the microreactor system for aerobic oxidation.

membrane reactors.18 These data demonstrate that the reaction times for full conversion of primary alcohols in the micro-packed bed are even more than 10 times shorter than those in the slug flow reactors, such as phenyl propanol (entry 3 and 4), 1-octanol (entry 5 and 6), and cyclohexane methanol (entry 9 and 10). The results indicate that the micro-packed bed reactor provides better mass transfer relative to the previous tubing reactors with a gas–liquid segmented (Taylor or slug) flow regime. However, one limitation of this catalytic system was found in the study. The complete conversion of 2-octanol (entry 7) was not achieved within 4 min at 65 °C. However, 90% conversion of 2-octanol was achieved at a residence time of 7 h (entry 8), where the catalyst system of RuCl2ĲPPh3)3/TEMPO was used in a semi- batch reactor. The mildness of reaction conditions is evident by oxidation of aromatic (entry 1 and 3) and aliphatic (entry 5) derivatives. Moreover, pure O2, which represents a significant safety hazard, was replaced with a diluted oxygen source (9% O2 in N2). By alleviating safety issues and enhancing gas–

liquid mixing, the flow system based on the micro-packed bed reactor described above enables efficient and selective aerobic oxidation of various primary alcohols to the corresponding aldehydes at milder conditions.

