3.5. Comparison of the Batch Reactor and Microreactor. A performance comparison between the microreactor and batch reactor is presented in Table 3. 90.7% yield could be achieved in the microreactor with an obviously shorter residence time (2 min) and less use of nitric acid. The result indicates that mixing and transfer rates limited the reaction rate in batch reactor. The deviation of batch results from flow process could be indicated by yield and residence time at similar condition. In batch reactor, yield reached 50% in 60 min at 90 °C; in micro- reactor, yield reached 82% in 2 min at 110 °C with both nitrate/ acetyl guaiacol molar ratio of 4. Considering the temperature difference, the reaction rate will increase by 15 times according

Table 3. Comparison of the microreactor and batch reactor

to activation energy. Microreactor still shows high selectivity and efficiency. The much faster reaction rate at high temper- ature was due to high activation energy of nitration; further- more, the mass transfer rate was high enough in the microreactor unlike the influence of mass transfer becoming more predominant at higher temperature in batch reactor. Besides that, limited by nitric acid pollution and safety, it was difficult to carry out aromatics nitration at high temperature in a batch reactor, and selectivity of 5-nitroguaiacol cannot be improved. Another important evaluation indicator for two reac- tors, space time conversion (STC), is compared in Table 3. It represents the converted moles to target product per unit time and volume and represents reactor's capacity. It is shown that STC of microreactor was nearly 50 times that of batch reactor. Hence, nitration of acetyl guaiacol carried out in the micro- reactor could be much more efficient.

such fast and exothermic reactions due to enhanced mixing, excellent heat transfer rate, and inherent safety characteristics [13, 14]. On the one hand, microreactor shows better control of the reaction, which is very significant for precise kinetic study [15, 16]. Recently, kinetic model of a fast exothermic Michael addition in microreactors has been reported by Sebastian [17], and it fits with the experimental results well. On the other hand, the fast mixing, better control of temperature, and continuous- flow mode can improve the selectivity to product and decrease the residence time to realize the intensification of nitration process [18, 19]. Over the last decade, a series of nitration of aromatics have been investigated in microreactors such as phe- nol, salicylic acid, toluene, and benzene [20–23]. The perform- ance is much superior to those in the traditional batch reactors. Yield of nitrophenol increases from 21% to 77% with residence time decreasing from 80 min to 5 min and continuous phenol nitration in a microreactor allows for better control of the exothermic reaction [20]. The reaction rate of toluene nitration in microreactors was found to be 30 times higher than that in the batch reactor by Halder [22].

Relatively low concentration of acetyl guaiacol (6%) was chosen to study the effect of various factors due to better temper- ature control. Twenty percent or even higher concentration of acetyl guaiacol was hard to be conducted in this setup, limited by huge heat released. From the results, as shown in Figure 6, we can find that, when ratio was less than 2.6, conversion and yield increased with the increase of molar ratio; when ratio surpassed 2.6, there was one platform in which yield remained constant with molar ratio increasing. At 110 and 120 °C, complete con- version was achieved once ratio is more than 2.6; therefore, 2.6 could be considered as optimal molar ratio in microreactors. In comparison with batch reactor, the optimal ratio reduced from 4.0 to 2.6, which meant less cost and pollution by nitric acid. This is due to that confined space and process pressure limit nitric acid's volatilization and decomposition in microreactors.

Microreactor 2.6 90.7 1.51 × 104

Nitric Acid–Acetic Acid System in a Microreactor

Acetyl Guaiacol Nitration in a Microreactor

Acetyl Guaiacol Nitration in a Microreactor

Acetyl Guaiacol Nitration in a Microreactor

