intensification technology for a broad range of reaction processes in laboratory and industry. The features of microreactors such as larger surface-to-volume ratio, higher mixing efficiency, faster heat and mass transfer rates, and excellent spatiotemporal control, allow reaction processes to overcome the transport limitation and thus to have better performance (e.g., higher selectivity and yield) compared with con- ventional batch reactors. The entire operation processes in micro- reactors are streamlined from start to end, which improves production efficiency and reduces manufacturing cost. Moreover, by extending the microchannel length or simply operating multiple microchannels in parallel, microreactor systems can be readily scaled up to meet indus- trial production [15,16]. Up to date, microreactors have been reported to have plenty of applications in polymer chemistry [17]. Combined with the RDRP technology of strong molecular design capability, tailor-made polymers with various sequence compositions, such as gradient [18], multiblock [19] and unimolecular sequence-defined [20], have been synthesized in microreactors, displaying enhanced precision than those from batch counterparts [21–23].

2.2.2. Synthesis of homoarm star polymers in the cascade microreactor system Typically, for the synthesis of PBA homoarm star polymer (SPB) with the molar ratio of [BA]0/[DoPAT]0/[HDDA]0 = 100/1/10, the mixture of BA (2.5 M, 100 eq), DoPAT (0.025 M, 1eq), ABVN (2.5 mM, 0.1eq) and DMF were used to prepare linear arms. HDDA (0.5 M) dissolved in DMF and ABVN (0.01 M) dissolved in DMF were ready for the cross linking process. After the oxygen removal, they were loaded into sepa- rate gastight syringes. Two syringes containing the reaction solutions with the same compositions for the arm formation step were connected to two separate capillary microreactors with the same inner volume of 1.02 mL (Fig. S2a), with a targeted residence time τ1 of 2 h at a flow rate of 0.51 mL/h. Indeed, one syringe should be sufficient for this step. However, we adopted this kind of "pseudo-miktoarm" operation to stay close to the subsequent synthesis processes for miktoarm star polymers [30]. Afterwards, the cross-linker mixture and initiator mixture

2.2.1. Synthesis of linear polymers in the microreactor Typically, for the synthesis of linear PBA, a homogeneous solution was obtained by adding the monomer BA (2.5 M, 100 eq), the RAFT agent DoPAT(1 eq), the initiator ABVN (0.1 eq) and the solvent DMF into a dried flask sealed with a rubber septum, and then was purged with N2 for 30 min. A capillary microreactor with 1.02 mL inner volume was flushed with dry DMF to purge moisture and oxygen inside the system. Then the reaction mixture was introduced into the microreactor by a syringe pump at the designed flow rate. The microreactor was immersed in a water bath at 80 ◦C. After the flow inside the capillary microreactor reached a stable state, the effluent was collected by a vial immersed in an ice-water bath. Following solvent removal and re-dissolving in dichloromethane, the polymer product was precipitated in cold ethanol, filtrated and dried under vacuum at 70 ◦C for 12 h. Other linear polymers, e.g., homopol- ymers PACMO and random copolymers P(ACMO-ran-BA), were syn- thesized in the same way by varying the ACMO/BA molar ratio while keeping the total monomer concentration constant at 2.5 M.

feedstocks (both at the flow rate of 0.51 mL/h) mixed with the stream of synthesized linear polymers through two micromixers, so the concen- trations of reactants were diluted according to their flow rate ratio (Fig. S1). The newly combined stream was delivered into a second capillary microreactor with 4.08 mL for the star formation step, at a residence time τ2 of 2 h (total flow rate of 2.04 mL/h). Samples at steady state were collected after twice the total residence time τ (τ = τ1+τ2). Other homoarm star polymers with homopolymer or copolymer arms were synthesized similarly but by varying the ACMO/BA ratio at the first step for arm formation (Fig. S2b).

We first investigated the continuous-flow preparation of linear arms. BA and ACMO were selected as target monomers because their corre- sponding polymer chains were respectively hydrophobic and hydro- philic, which could be used to fabricate miktoarm star polymers. The highly active initiator ABVN was selected to ensure fast reaction rates as to avoid long reaction time. By adjusting the feed flow rate to achieve different residence times, we studied the RAFT homopolymerization kinetics of BA and ACMO, as shown in Fig. 2. Upon entering the capillary microreactor, the reaction mixture was heated from the room temper- ature to the set temperature and established the RAFT equilibrium. Although such a process was greatly benefited from the enhanced heat and mass transfer in the microreactor, the influence of this inhibition period on the conversion (X) could not be ignored especially when the residence time was short [32,33]. Only after the residence time excee- ded 30 min, the polymerization processes fitted the first-order kinetics well (Fig. 2a, d), indicating that the amount of active radicals remained

3.2.4. Kinetics of the coupling reaction in the cascade microreactor system Moreover, in the second step of the cascade microreactor system, we used l-PACMO with the chain length of nearly 40 as an example to study the coupling reaction kinetics from linear macromolecules to star shaped macromolecules. The flow rate of the combined stream was maintained constant, and τ2 was controlled by adjusting the inner vol- ume of the capillary (V2). Fig. 6 shows that the conversion of HDDA quickly exceeded 80% after 30 min. However, the reaction rate of HDDA decreased significantly when τ2 was longer than 30 min, not only because of the falling HDDA concentration but also due to the majority of the radicals' encapsulation within the cross-linked cores, leading to the enhanced diffusion resistance for HDDA to travel through the PACMO shell to react with those radicals [41]. With the increase of the coupling degree, the star yield increased from 36% at τ2 = 10 min to a plateau value of 75% at τ2 = 2 h. The MWD curve gradually expanded to the high MW region, but the trend would become less obvious. Therefore, τ2 was selected as 2 h for the subsequent continuous synthesis of various star polymers.

Accordingly, the GPC trace of the product moved slightly to a high MW region. Similar to Gao's report for preparing star polymers [39], the procedure of linear chains purification was omitted in our cascade microreactor system. Strictly speaking, the core was a copolymer of the cross-linker and the unreacted monomer. Such a structure could decrease the core's steric congestion, hence facilitating the incorpora- tion of arms into the star polymer, and vice versa. Nevertheless, for the microreactor operation herein, unreacted monomers and initiators were removed from linear chains and the cores were formed merely by the cross-linkers, which might weaken the optimization effect of enhanced mixing on MWDs. Moreover, we hoped to avoid tedious intermediate procedures of purification, separation and solution preparation, so as to achieve the continuous preparation of the targeted polymers from re- actants in the true sense. Chen et al. proposed the use of a packed plug in flow RAFT systems, which improved the mixing between different streams and benefit the MWD control of block copolymers [36]. We adopted their idea, and thus a plug packed with 40 mesh size SiO2 beads was assembled behind the T-micromixers for the second step in the cascade microreactor system (see Fig. S4). To our delight, more linear arms joined in the star struc- ture, causing an obvious shift of the MWD curve to the high MW region. The peak molecular weight of the star polymer component Mp2 was 5 times larger than that of the arm component Mp1 (Fig. 4b), suggesting that the enhanced mixing performance was indeed beneficial for increasing the star yield. Unfortunately, in the later exploratory exper- iments using formulas with larger contents of cross-linkers, microgels could form and then be adsorbed by SiO2 beads during the coupling reaction process. As the microgels aggregated, the resistance of the packed plug significantly increased and eventually blocked the micro- reactor system. It was difficult to rinse out the microgels from the packed plug effectively, and replacing the packed plug might affect the exper- iment's repeatability. Nevertheless, commercial mixing devices such as static micromixers [40] could be considered to replace packed plugs for further studies of mixing-related polymerization systems.

With the RAFT arm-first method, butyl acrylate and 4-acryloylmorpholine were used as monomers to form linear arms, which subsequently reacted with the cross-linker 1,6-hexanediol diacrylate to form star-shaped macro- molecules in cascade microreactor systems. After studying polymerization kinetics in each step, homoarm and miktoarm star products with various arm compositions were steadily prepared by optimizing the reaction flowsheet and adjusting the reactant formula. Such continuous-flow processing avoided tedious intermediate purification procedures and prepared polymer products with considerable star yield (>70%), molecular weights (Mw,LS > 100 kg/mol) and arm numbers (>30). Multiple emulsions (including two types, i.e., oil-in-water and water-in-oil) were formed utilizing star products with different amphiphilic architectures as emulsifiers. This study demonstrated that in this continuous-flow mode, through regulating the residence time and flow rate ratio in each step, the arm and core structures of star polymers were tailored to possess remarkable functional applications.

3.2. Study on the reaction conditions for preparing star polymers in the cascade microreactor system

2.2.3. Synthesis of miktoarm star polymers in the cascade microreactor system

