residence time (t) is estimated as V(1 −ε)/Q, where V (W × D × L) is the total volume of the reactor and Q is the volumetric flow rate, where W is the width, D is the depth, and L is the length of the microchannels. The microreactor was placed on a uniform heating stage to control the experimental temperature with a variability of ±0.5 °C. To ensure temperature uniformity, the microchannel interior temperature was intermittently measured by inserting a thermocouple. Through two separate inlets on the microreactor, the toluene-d8/benzyl alcohol mixture and ε-CL, both pre-equilibrated to the desired reaction temperature, were introduced at fixed flow rates to obtain a 2:1 ratio of toluene-d8 and ε-CL inside the microreactor. For experiments to determine ε-CL ROP kinetics, 3 mL of the ε-CL/toluene-d8 mixture was passed through the microreactor at diﬀerent flow rates, indicating diﬀerent reaction times. For N435 reusability studies the reaction mixture was continuously passed through the microreactor, and 3 mL aliquots were collected for every reaction cycle. All microreactor experiments were performed at least three times to determine experimental variability. As used for batch reactions, for experiments conducted under "dry conditions" all the reactants were transferred to syringes in glovebox, while to establish "water saturated" conditions, water saturated toluene (0.033% w/w water) was used instead of dry toluene. Characterization. Proton (1H) NMR was used to determine (i) monomer conversion, (ii) number-average molar mass (Mn), and (iii) the fraction of chains initiated by benzyl alcohol. 1H NMR spectra were recorded on a Bruker NMR spectrometer (model DPX300) at 300 MHz. Assignment of signals was based on that published elsewhere.15 A representative 1H NMR spectrum (300 MHz, toluene- d) of PCL with benzyl ester/carboxylic acid and hydroxyl terminal groups at the Cand O-terminal chain end positions is given in the Supporting Information (Figure S1). Signals for structural analysis included those at 3.78 (t, J 6.5 Hz, −[CO]−OCHH2CH2−), due to protons of ε-CL monomer; resonances at 3.99 (t, 6.5 Hz, −[CO]−OCHH2CH2−), due to PCL repeat units along chains; and signals at 3.53 (t, 6.5 Hz,

Polymerizations in microchannel flow systems conducted using traditional catalysts show considerable promise to provide benefits over batch reactor systems. For example, due to improved temperature control in microreactor systems, free radical polymerizations gave products with lower PDIs than these polymers synthesized in batch reactions.24 Homopolyme- rizations of NCA−amino acid monomers conducted in microreactors gave higher molecular weights with lower

plot of ε-CL conversion as a function of time was constructed and is displayed in Figure S2. The apparent rate constant in microreactor (kapp = 0.027 s−1) was 27 times larger than the batch reactor (kapp = 0.001 s−1) due to the higher catalyst surface area (SA) to reaction volume ratio and the shorter diﬀusional path length32 in microreactor than batch reactors. The microreactor contains 100 mg of N435 within a reactor volume of 130 mm3. Hence, the catalyst loading density in the microreactor is 100 mg/130 mm3 (0.77 mg/mm3). In batch, the reaction contains 100 mg of N435 suspended in 3 mL such that the catalyst loading density is 0.03 mg/mm3. Therefore, the catalyst loading is ∼25 times higher in the microreactor. The SA of N435 beads is reported as 80 m2/g.33 Thus, 100 mg beads will have a SA of 8 m2/100 mg. Hence, the SA to volume ratio in the microreactor is 8 m2/130 mm3 (0.06 m2/mm3), whereas in batch reactors, the SA to volume is 8 m2/3000 mm3 (0.0026 m2/mm3). The above analysis shows that the SA to volume ratio in the microreactor is 23 times higher than in the batch reactor. Values of PCL Mn in microreactor polymerizations run under "dry" and "water saturated" conditions were similar up to about 90% conversion (Figure 1c). Under "dry" conditions, as conversion progressed from 90% to 96%, Mn almost doubled (1800 to 3500), whereas under "water saturated" conditions, further increase in conversion to 96% gave Mn ∼2300, consistent with the general trend of the ε-CL vs conversion plot. Figure 1d shows the identical experiment conducted in Figure 1c but using the batch reactor. Trends of Mn vs conversion for polymerizations in batch were dramatically diﬀerent from those in microreactor. First, in the microreactor, trends under "dry" and "water saturated" conditions were similar other than above 90% conversion. However, in the batch system, "dry" and "water saturated" conditions resulted in very diﬀerent Mn vs conversion plots. Under "dry conditions", Mn values increased linearly with conversion up to about 80%. Relative to the microreactor system under "dry conditions", at 75% conversion, Mn was 2 times larger (3000 vs 1500) in the batch system. Under "water saturated" conditions in batch, Mn increased slowly from ∼250 to 1000 as % conversion increased from 19% to 73%. Such large eﬀects of reaction water content on Mn values in batch systems is consistent with previously published results.34 In summary, water functions as an initiator along with benzyl alcohol such that, at higher water content, chain initiation occurs to a greater extent for the same quantity of monomer, resulting in a larger number of chains and, therefore, lower Mn. Furthermore, as reactions progress under "dry" conditions, a deviation from linearity of Mn versus conversion plots occurs as events of step-condensation reactions increase in frequency (see also Figure S2). It is well-known that step-condensation propagation reactions result in exponential increases in molecular weight.15

In this study, the synthesis of end-functionalized oligomers of PCL was studied using a microreactor system consisting of high catalyst surface area due to microchannels packed with macroporous immobilized N435 beads. The model initiator, benzyl alcohol, was used to probe initiator reaction eﬃciency. Results from this work can guide other studies where end groups consist of bioactive molecules at chain termini that endow corresponding materials processed into various forms to have important therapeutic,27−29 antimicrobial,30 and anti- biofouling31 properties. The present work uses a microreactor system with N435 bead packed channels as a platform to investigate eﬀects of reaction water content and number of microchannel reactor reuses on the eﬃciency of end-group functionalization, monomer conversion, chain molecular weight averages, and leaching/desorption of lipase from N435. Results in micro- channels were compared with a batch reactor system. Intriguing diﬀerences between the batch and microchannel reactor system underscore fundamental dissimilarities between these two systems. New insights were gained into the diﬀerent eﬀects of water content in batch and microchannel reactor systems. ■EXPERIMENTAL SECTION

a relatively small aﬀect herein since the major reaction during PCL synthesis is transesterification between the chain end hydroxyl group and enzyme-activated monomer. Reusability of N435 in the batch reactor system was also studied. Figure 4a shows that, over seven reaction cycles, % ε- CL conversion for the "water saturated" system remained at about 90%. Additional reaction cycles up to 11 resulted in a continuous and slow decrease to 75% conversion. Under "dry" reaction conditions, % ε-CL conversion remained at about 90% over the first five reaction cycles and, thereafter, decreased so that by the seventh run ε-CL conversion was 75%. A similar decrease in % ε-CL conversion under "dry" conditions in microreactor occurred after about 12 cycles (Figure 3a). Values of Mn as a function of the number of reaction cycles are displayed in Figure 4b. Under "water saturated" conditions in the batch reactor, Mn values over 11 reaction cycles remained at about 3000. This is curious in that, over the same series of reactions, conversion values decreased after the seventh reaction run. In the microreactor, Mn remained invariable over the first nine reaction cycles with values that were slightly lower (about 2200) and which thereafter slowly decreased (Figure 3b). Conversely, under "dry" conditions, diﬀerences between Mn values over multiple cycles conducted in microreactor and batch systems are dramatic. In batch, Mn values increased dramatically over the seven reaction cycles. After the first, fourth, and seventh cycles Mn was 700, 1200, and 4000, respectively. This is consistent with "dry" conditions where, after each reaction cycle, water content in reactions decreases due to water consumption by chain initiation, resulting in an increased propensity for propagation via step- condensation reactions between chain segments. Study of Figure 3b over the first seven microreactor cycles under "dry"

Comparing the fraction of chain ends with benzyl ester C- terminal groups for "dry" and "water saturated" reactions in microreactor and batch systems demonstrates the very diﬀerent environments of these two reaction systems. In batch, C- terminal chain ends predominantly consist of carboxylic acid moieties. In other words, the fraction of benzyl ester chain ends remains below 0.2 throughout the reaction (to 1800 s). In the microreactor, under "water saturated" conditions, by 90 s, chain ends consist of ≥0.98 benzyl ester groups. Hence, as discussed above, the microreactor design results in an environment such that "water saturated" reactions behave similarly to "dry" conditions where the content of water associated with CALB is relatively low. N435 reusability for BzOH end-functionalized PCL synthesis was evaluated in the microreactor system. 90 mL of reaction mixture consisting of ε-CL and BzOH (20:1 mol/mol) in toluene-d8 was continuously processed through the micro- reactor, and 3 mL aliquots for each reaction cycle were collected. Based on the results in Figure 1a that showed maximum % ε-CL conversion was reached within a 120 s reaction time, the flow rate was adjusted to 65 μL/s. Aliquots from each reaction cycle were analyzed as above by 1H NMR to simultaneously ascertain values of % ε-CL conversion, Mn, and end-capping eﬃciency. Results in Figure 3a show that, for the "dry" system over 30 reaction cycles, % ε- CL conversion decreased gradually from 90 to 55%. In contrast, for the "water saturated" system over the first 20 cycles, conversion dropped from 90 to 70% (∼22% decrease). Thereafter, over the following 10 cycles, no further decrease in % ε-CL conversion was observed. The larger decrease in % conversion for the "dry" system over the 30 cycles is consistent with water depletion, resulting in decreased enzyme activity. Water depletion is expected under "dry" conditions since, over repeated reaction cycles, water bound to the enzyme is gradually consumed due to reactions in which water acts as chain initiator generating carboxyl terminal groups found on about 10−20% of total chains formed (Figure 3c). For "dry" and "water saturated" microreactor systems, PCL Mn values gradually decreased over the first 18−20 cycles from about 3000 to 1750 g/mol and 2250 to 1750 g/mol, respectively. Since % conversion over the same number of cycles decreased by 22%, this accounts perfectly for the decrease in Mn under "water saturated" conditions. However, regardless of similar decreases in % conversion under "dry" and "water saturated" conditions over the first 10 reaction cycles (30 mL reaction volume), Mn values under "dry" conditions are

Figure 3. N435 reusability as a function of the number of reuse cycles during continuous PCL synthesis at 70 °C in microreactor. As indicators of N435 reusability, plots were constructed of % ε-CL conversion (a), Mn (b), and fractional content of benzyl ester groups at PCL chain ends (c) as a function of the number of recycles or volume of reactant. Each data point indicates 3 mL of reactant processed through the microreactor, and data is presented for a total of 30 cycles or 90 mL. Error bars indicate one standard uncertainty based on measurements of at least three diﬀerent samples.

These reasons have stimulated researchers to develop and study microreactor systems. Work has begun to explore the benefits of enzymes immobilized on solid supports packed within microchannels with special interest in the development of biotransformations for the synthesis of molecules for therapeutic applications.21,22

ABSTRACT: An enzyme packed microreactor was compared with a batch reactor system to determine eﬀects of reaction water content on immobilized Candida antarctica Lipase B (Novozyme 435, N435) reusability, eﬃciency of end-group functionalization, apparent monomer conversion rate con- stants (kapp), average molar mass (Mn), and leaching of Candida antarctica Lipase B (CALB) from Lewatit macro- porous beads. Conversion of ε-caprolactone to poly(ε- caprolactone), PCL, using benzyl alcohol for end-functional- ization, was the model system for studies conducted herein. The apparent rate constant in microreactor (kapp = 0.027 s−1) was 27 times larger than in batch reactor (kapp = 0.001 s−1). Furthermore, in microreactor, the Mn vs conversion plots for "dry" and "water saturated" conditions were similar. In contrast, under "water saturated" conditions in a batch reactor, Mn is much lower. Moreover, at both high and low water content, higher end-group functionalization was achieved for polymerizations in microreactor (0.75 to ≥0.98) as compared to batch reactor (0.2). Also, microreactors run for 30 cycles under "dry" or "water saturated" conditions gave product where the fraction of benzyl ester groups on chains remains high, between 80 and 90%. In contrast, in the "water saturated" batch system, the fraction of benzyl ester terminal groups remains at about 0.30 throughout all 11 reaction cycles. These results led to the conclusion that the microreactor design results in eﬀectively "dry" conditions even when reactants are "water saturated". CALB leaching during 7, 18, and 25 reaction cycles in microreactor steadily increased from 10 to 15 and 22%. However, at 30 cycles, CALB leaching disproportionaly increased to 76% without apparent physical deterioration of beads. Comparative results in batch reactors for all experiments above are reported and discussed. ■INTRODUCTION

compared using microreactor and batch systems. The fraction of C-terminal benzyl ester moieties at PCL chain ends was determined by 1H NMR analysis following previously published methods (see Figure S1 and accompanying discussion in the Supporting Information). Figure 2a shows that, in microreactor, high fractions of chains are end-functionalized by benzyl alcohol for both "water saturated" and "dry" systems. As the reaction time increased from 15 to 90 s, the fraction of BzOH esterified PCL chain-ends increased from about 0.75 to ≥0.98. The extent of end-functionalization for "dry" and "water saturated" systems is nearly identical. This similarity is consistent with Mn versus conversion results for "dry" and "water saturated" microreactor systems discussed above. In contrast to the microreactor, in batch under "dry" conditions a regular increase in the fraction of chains with benzyl ester C- terminal groups occurs with increasing reaction time (Figure 2b). That is, from 300 to 1800 s, the fraction of BzOH

