m-xylene with mixed acid. Prepared mixed acid solution and m-xylene solution introduced into the microreactor by two metering pumps and adjusted the molar ratio of nitric acid to m-xylene by changing the volume flow rate and increasing the residence time by increasing the microchan- nel plate. The synthesis route is shown in scheme 1.

95% selectivity in 6 min residence time with a throughput of 16.6 g/h. The nitration of m-xylene in microreactors has been rarely reported, especially synthesis process at the kilogram level. In summary, the development and design of the nitration of m-xylene in a microreactor is the most prom- ising potential for industrial production.

choosing an optimal residence time is also a key param- eter for designing the reactor. At the same flow rate, the longer the residence time, the more microreactor plates are required, increasing the manufacturing cost. Figure 12 represents the variation of residence time in the first nitrifi- cation reaction by increasing the number of reactor plates. The first microreactor was selected with 4, 6, and 10 plates, and the number of plates in the second microreactor was not changed. There was a slight increase in the mono- nitro products and poly-nitro impurities yields, increasing the residence time. Figure 13 shows the effect of varying the residence time of the second segment on the reaction. Since the second microreactor designed only four plates, we chose to take samples in the second reactor plates for com- parison. The experimental results show that there has 1.4% m-xylene unconverted. Therefore, the above experimental results show that the optimal total residence time is 104 s. Figure 14 analyzes the relationship between conversion rate and residence time for the two-step nitration method. It can be seen that the conversion rate has a positive proportional relationship with the residence time. As the residence time increases, the conversion rate gradually decreases because the water produced by the reaction reduces the nitration capacity. The conversion rate of 90% HNO3 is significantly lower than that of 98% HNO3, demonstrating the effect of water on the nitration reaction. However, the addition of H2SO4 increased the conversion from 69.2 to 99.5%.

Zhengzhou Ruihan Instrument Co., Ltd., China), micro- reactor (VMRHS0030-1903, HC276, China), microreac- tor (entrance diameter 3 mm, width 1.5 mm, groove depth 1.3 mm, column diameter 2 mm, total liquid volume 60mL, each microchannel plate liquid volume 3mL).

of dangerous reactants in the reactor is small [25, 26]. The potential explosion severity in a microreactor is low. In addition, the reaction time can be reduced to a few millisec- onds due to the small amount of liquid held. Therefore, the microreactor is suitable for rapid and high exothermic reac- tion process design. Microreactor technology has developed rapidly in the last two decades. It is widely used in chemical synthesis. Most successfully, using microreactor technology for rapid reactions with mixing or transport limitations can improve reaction performance, such as nitration [27–29]. Russo [30] reported the synthesis of nitrobenzaldehyde by benzyl alcohol with mixed acids in a microreactor. The yields of the orthoand meta-isomers products can reach 42% and 96%, respectively, which is impossible in a batch reactor. Xie [31] reported a method for synthesizing kilo- gram-scale piperacillin in a microreactor. The micro-flow system consists of two membrane dispersion microreactors connected in series. By varying the size and cross-sectional area of the membranes, yields of 94.70% and purity exceed- ing 99.7% were obtained. Yu [32] reported an experimental study of adiabatic reactions in a microreactor. In the micro- reactor, the yield of 1-methyl-4-(methylsulfonyl)benzene with mixed acids reached 98% within a residence time of 5 s. Sharma et al. [33] studied the reactions of different nitri- fiers to o-xylene in microreactors and discussed the eco- nomic feasibility. The results show that adopting the digital method is the most economical way to increase production capacity. Although the scale-up design and high-throughput capacity of micro-reaction processes are achieved in these studies, thermal management is often neglected, and safety issues are not taken seriously.

for industrial production. Entry 6 in Table 1 shows the reac- tion with m-xylene in a microreactor using a mixed acid as a nitrating agent. Compared with the entry 6 this work has four advantages. First, the throughput is 1 kg/h, higher than 16.6 g/h. Second, the residence time is 104 s, lower than 6 min. Third, the selectivity is also higher than entry 6. Four, the conversion of this work was 99.5%, and entries 6 was 90%. Unlike the phenomena observed during the entry 6 experimental, this work did not show blockage or other faults. The pressure drop is also lower than the maximum upper limit of the pump (2 mPa). The comparison of the above experimental data is sufficient to prove the applicabil- ity of the experimental method designed in this paper. The comparison of reaction time, conversion, and selectivity are the most reported advantages in the literature for industrial production.

tinuous reaction processes is an attractive and safe way to perform nitration experiments. Compared with the batch reactors, the advantages of the microreactor are the high surface to volume ratio, small online liquid holding capac- ity, and small dimensions of pathways. The specific sur- face area in microreactors can achieve 103 to 104 m2·m− 3, which is one to two orders of magnitude higher than that of the batch reactor [19–24]. Therefore, the microreactor has high heat transfer efficiency and can ensure the tempera- ture stability of the reaction process. The high heat trans- fer and heat removal efficiency and continuous operation process reduced the risk of thermal runaway and improved the essential safety of the reaction process. On the other hand, due to the tiny microchannel size, the total amount

in the literature, the conversion rate and mono-nitro prod- ucts selectivity have good advantages, providing a new pathway for industrial production. A comparison between batch and continuous flow reaction modes was also pre- sented. The results show that the microreactor has apparent advantages in reaction time, temperature, and space-time yield. This also indicates that the tandem nitration process method is applicable and provides an essential strategy for the kilograms-scale synthesis of aromatic nitration reactions in microreactors.

material of the microreactor was fabricated by Hartz alloy (HC276). It consists of three layers: the heat transfer layers are located on the top and bottom, and the reaction layer is in the middle. The reaction layer comprises many heart- shaped cells (six rows, 36 cells). Each heart-shaped unit has a different cross-section and internal obstacles, a cylindrical column, and a U-shaped structure (see Figure 2), forming a series of convergent-divergent sections to increase the mass transfer rate.

The molar ratio is one of the most important influencing fac- tors of nitration reaction, which affects the conversion rate of m-xylene and directly relates to the generation of poly- nitro products. At the same time, nitric acid is an unstable compound, which is readily decomposed under high-tem- perature conditions and brings trouble to the reaction pro- cess, so it is crucial to choose a suitable molar ratio. Figure 4 shows the effect of the molar ratio of nitric acid to m-xylene on the reaction. Experimental data were obtained by adjust- ing the volume flow rate of mixed acid and m-xylene at the same residence time conditions. It is clear from the figure that the molar ratio has a positive relationship with the con- version and poly-nitro impurities yield. The conversion increased from 88% to 99%, and the poly-nitro impurities rose from 14.6% to 55.3%. It is not difficult to understand that the increase in molar ratio leads to the rise in NO2

Where V, Qaq, and Qor are the microchannel volume, aque- ous volumetric flow rate, and organic volumetric flow rate.

Continuous flow nitration of m-xylene is illustrated in Fig- ure 1 and Figure 2. The experimental setup consisted of three metering pumps. Solution 1 contains m-xylene and dichloromethane (DCM) (1:1, w/w), solution B (nitric acid, 98 wt%), solution 3 (sulfuric acid, 80 wt%). Solutions 1 and 2 were introduced to the microreactor (a) via metering pumps a and b. Solution 3 and the solution of microreac- tor (a) entered the microreactor (b). The temperature control system of the two microreactors is controlled by high and low-temperature circulation equipment. Samples were col- lected in a fixed quantity of ice-cold water at different outlets (corresponding to other residence times). The primary body

technology can successfully perform nitration reactions [40–42]. However, there are still bad cases of process design and scale-up of highly exothermic reactions in a microreac- tor. Here we focus on design. Process safety should draw more attention as the enlarged reactor may not be inherently safe anymore. We first used the process parameters for the synthesis of nitro m-xylene in a batch reactor as the basis for our study. A two-step nitration process consisting of two microreactors connected in series was designed. Finally, we compare the process with those reported in the literature and provide an outlook.

A continuous flow two-step nitration process was designed and used to synthesize kilograms-scale nitration of m-xylene. Several key factors were investigated systemati- cally: temperature, molar ratio, residence time, and sulfuric acid mass fraction. The results show that temperature and mass fraction of sulfuric acid are the most critical factors affecting the reaction. Compared with the batch reactor, the reaction rate is not easy to control when mixed acid is used as a nitration agent in a microreactor. Compared with the traditional one-step nitration method, the two-step nitration

Chemistry in Continuous Flow using Fuming Nitric Acid in a Commercially Available Flow Reactor. Org Process Res Dev 15(6):1447–1453. https://doi.org/10.1021/op200055r

Process design of two-step mononitration of m-xylene in a microreactor

vary with the reaction process or time, and the reaction rate can be expressed as a function of time (t), namely r = f(t). However, in the microreactor, T and C vary along the reac- tor channel, which means they are dependent on the loca- tion, namely r = f(z) [47]. The batch operation can control the reaction time and reduce the exothermic rate of the reaction by adding the material slowly to the batch reactor. However, the heat release rate of reaction in the microreac- tor is a function of space, and the heat release of reaction is mainly concentrated in the front of microchannel plates. Therefore, by controlling the heat removal rate of the front reaction module or reducing nitration capacity, the heat release rate of the reaction can be promoted smoothly. For industrial-scale amplification, increasing the heat removal rate of coolant requires high energy consumption, and the heat transfer area can not be infinitely amplified. Based on this, we designed a method to reduce the nitration capacity of the nitration agent and reduce the heat release rate of the reaction.

with m-xylene. However, although the molar ratio increases the conversion, the yield of the mono-nitro products gradu- ally decreases because the mono-nitro products continue to be replaced by NO2

The residence time is one of the critical factors affecting the reaction, and an appropriate residence time can effec- tively reduce the yield of poly-nitro impurities. Meanwhile,

reaction. The main ways to avoid thermal runaway include reducing the exothermic reaction rate and increasing the coolant heat removal rate. In general, poly-nitro products require very high temperatures. A high sulfuric acid strength favors conversion rate but degrades selectivity. As shown in Figure 7, at the same temperature, the content of poly-nitro products when the mass fraction of sulfuric acid reaches 90% is 11 times that when the mass fraction comes to 70%. The concentrations of reactants were high at the beginning, leading to a fast reaction rate and high heat generation rate. In the case of speedy and strongly exothermic reactions, even the superior heat transfer characteristics of the micro- reactor may not be sufficient to avoid hot spots in the inlet region of the reactor, and side reactions may still occur.