Entry 3-Nitro product (%) 4-Nitro product (%) Conversion (%) Yield b (%) Impurities b (%) Selectivity of products c (%)

Entry Substrate Nitro-product(s) Selectivity of productsb (%) Reaction temperature (°C) Yieldc (%) Residence time (s)

eﬃcient and safe continuous-flow microreaction process for mononitration, which achieves high yield

the same reaction conditions, the yield and selectivity were consistent with, or even improved over,

impact on product yield, thus enhancing economic benefits and reducing environmental pollution. This continuous nitration process not only shows broad application potential but also oﬀers a safe and

a Reaction conditions: H2SO4 concentration = 70%, H2SO4/HNO3 mole ratio = 4.4, HNO3/substrate mole ratio = 1.6 and ow rate of substrates = 1 g min−1. b Selectivity of products = (total yield of mononitro-products/conversion of substrates) × 100%. c Yields and selectivities were determined by GC. d Numbers in parentheses represent regioselectivity.

substrate. Further studies revealed that as the HNO3/p-xylene ratio increased, both conversion and selectivity improved. Complete substrate conversion was achieved when the molar ratio reached 4.4 (Fig. 3d). Ultimately, under optimized condi- tions—a substrate ow rate of 1 g min−1 and a mixed acid ow rate of 12 g min−1—the yield of mononitro-p-xylene reached 94.0%, with a residence time of only 19 seconds.

overabundance of nitronium ions (NO2 +), promoting the formation of unwanted polynitro by-products. Optimization experiments showed that a H2SO4 concentration of 70% provided the best selectivity (Fig. 3c). Despite these optimizations, substrate conversion remained suboptimal, primarily due to the short residence time in the continuous-ow reactor, which limited reaction completion. Increasing the number of microreactor modules to extend the residence time could enhance conversion but would signi- cantly raise the xed investment costs for industrial-scale equipment. To maintain a short reaction time, the reaction was intensied by increasing the molar ratio of HNO3 to

a Reaction conditions: T = 80 °C, H2SO4 concentration = 70%, H2SO4/HNO3 mole ratio = 1.6, HNO3/o-xylene mole ratio = 4.4. b yield and impurities were determined by GC. c Selectivity of products = (total yield of mononitro-products/conversion) × 100%. d Use freshly prepared mixed acid. e Using recycled mixed acid.

mononitration selectivity. By optimizing the molar ratio of acid to substrate, the number of microreactor modules was reduced to ve, shortening the reaction time from 90 seconds to 29 seconds. This adjustment signicantly lowered xed costs associated with industrial implementation while enhancing process feasibility. Furthermore, integrating a waste acid recy- cling strategy eﬀectively mitigated the issue of acid disposal. Compared to our previous methodology, this new process ach- ieved notable improvements in product yield and mononitro compound selectivity.

Development of a scalable and sustainable continuous-flow microreaction process for mononitration of aromatic compounds with high selectivity and yield†

We then performed scale-up experiments for the continuous nitration of o-xylene and p-xylene (using the Corning AFR G1 reactor equipped with ve standard ow control modules, each with a volume of 8.3 mL) (Fig. 5). In these experiments, the feed rate of the substrates was scaled up to 600 g h−1 and the reac- tion residence time was 29 seconds. By ne-tuning the reaction temperature, p-nitroxylene was successfully synthesized at 60 °C with a yield of 94.6% and a product throughput of 809 g h−1. Similarly, the nitration of o-xylene was carried out at 78 °C, achieving a total yield of 97.6% and a throughput of 835 g h−1. Compared to the small-scale process, only minor temperature adjustments were required for the scaled-up throughput, while all other parameters remained unchanged. The yields of the nal products remained stable and even showed slight improvement, highlighting the excellent scalability of the process and its strong potential for industrial applications.

Furthermore, this process generates substantial amounts of waste acid, which, if not properly treated, can lead to severe environmental contamination, such as acidication of water bodies and soil degradation. Lastly, traditional nitration methods suﬀer from limitations in reaction selectivity and yield. The inability to precisely control reaction parameters oen results in inconsistent selectivity and yield, posing signicant challenges for achieving reliable and eﬃcient production. In recent years, continuous-ow microreaction technology has demonstrated remarkable advantages in nitration

observed at 60 °C (Fig. 3a), with a conversion rate of 46.1% and selectivity of 83.3%. The impact of the H2SO4/HNO3 molar ratio was then examined. Conversion and selectivity improved as the H2SO4/HNO3 ratio increased but declined aer exceeding 2.0. While slightly higher ratios oﬀered marginal improvements, 1.6 was chosen as the optimal ratio for its ability to achieve a good balance between high conversion and selectivity, while mini- mizing the environmental burden associated with excessive acid usage (Fig. 3b). H2SO4 concentration played a critical role in the nitration reaction, functioning as both a catalyst and a dehydrating agent. Insuﬃcient H2SO4 concentration hindered the reaction, while excessive concentrations led to an

processes, such as excellent mixing eﬃciency, high heat and mass transfer eﬃciency, minimal reactant volume, short resi- dence times, and rapid responsiveness.24,26 Building on these benets, numerous successful applications of microreactor technology in nitration have emerged, oﬀering an eﬃcient, safe, and sustainable direction for the development of industrial nitration processes.27–34 In 2015, Kulkarni and his team inves- tigated a continuous nitration process for o-xylene using a tubular reactor.35 The process employed fuming HNO3 (FNA) as the nitrating agent, achieving a 99% conversion rate of o- xylene with 7.2% dinitro impurity content. However, the required FNA amount was six times the molar quantity of o- xylene, leading to substantial reagent waste, while the maximum yield of nitro-o-xylene reached only 91.8%, leaving room for optimization. In 2023, Sh¯u Kobayashi and colleagues introduced a contin- uous-ow nitration approach using solid acid catalysts in the presence of HNO3.36 While this method demonstrated eﬀec- tiveness, its industrial scalability was hindered by the high cost of solid acid catalysts and the use of organic solvents. In 2022, our team developed an eﬃcient continuous-ow nitration process for o-xylene and its analogues (Fig. 1). This approach utilized 10 microreaction modules arranged in series, where the double-stage nitration reaction overcame the reaction equilib- rium, resulting in a mononitro-o-xylene yield of 94.1%. Despite improving substrate selectivity and yield, implementing multiple microreactor modules prolonged reaction times, reduced production eﬃciency, and increased xed capital costs. Additionally, the double-stage nitration step introduced proce- dural complexity and elevated waste acid generation, which together limited its industrial scalability.37

continuous production of nitro-p-xylene and nitro-o-xylene, with a product output of 800 g h−1. Under

related compounds (Table 1). Nitro-o-xylene serves as a precursor for the synthesis of important compounds, including riboavin (vitamin B2) and the herbicide dymron, was synthesized using this approach with a yield of 96.1% and a reaction residence time of 19 seconds (Table 1, entry 1). Nitro- chlorobenzene, a key intermediate for azo dyes and herbicides like alachlor, was obtained with a yield of 99.4% within a resi- dence time of 21 seconds (Table 1, entry 2). Similarly, nitro- toluene, a widely used chemical intermediate in the synthesis of dyes and explosives, was produced with a high yield of 98.1% within a residence time of 17 seconds (Table 1, entry 3).

In conclusion, this study developed an eﬃcient and safe continuous-ow microreaction mononitration process, achieving high yields and exceptional mononitration selectivity for a variety of mononitro compounds, including nitro-p-xylene, nitro-o-xylene, nitro-chlorobenzene, nitro-toluene, and a key intermediate in the synthesis of the anticancer drug erlotinib. The process was successfully scaled up to a production capacity of 800 g h−1 for the continuous synthesis of nitro-o-xylene and nitro-p-xylene, conrming its scalability and feasibility for industrial implementation. Additionally, the integration of a waste acid recovery and recycling strategy signicantly enhanced economic eﬃciency while mitigating environmental pollution. These advancements highlight the potential of this

p-Xylene, an important chemical feedstock,8,38 is widely utilized in the synthesis of dyes, plastics, pharmaceuticals, and pesti- cides. In this study, p-xylene was chosen as a model substrate for optimizing reaction conditions. First, 98% concentrated H2SO4 was diluted with water to the desired concentration and mixed with 97% concentrated HNO3 at a specic molar ratio to prepare the mixed acid. The mixed acid and p-xylene were then fed into a continuous-ow microreactor (Corning AFR Lab reactor equipped with a 2.7 mL microreactor module) through separate inlet streams (Fig. 2). Aer separating the organic phase from the reaction mixture, the products were analyzed via gas chromatography. The eﬀect of temperature on the reaction was rst investi- gated under initial conditions: p-xylene ow rate at 2 g min−1, H2SO4 concentration at 70%, H2SO4/HNO3 molar ratio at 1.2, and HNO3/p-xylene molar ratio at 1.1. Within the temperature range of 30 °C to 100 °C, substrate conversion increased with rising temperature, while mononitration selectivity initially increased and then declined. The highest selectivity was

and excellent selectivity. This process is applicable for the continuous synthesis of various mononitro compounds, including nitro-p-xylene, nitro-o-xylene, nitro-chlorobenzene, and nitro-toluene.

