Fig. 7 Effect of the total volumetric flow rate on the yield of 4-NBP and the conversion of 4-NBDT in the capillary microreactor at the same residence time (tS = 7.7 min, TS = 25 °C, Pd(OAc)2 = 1 mol%, and C(HNO3) = 11.5 mmol/L)

Fig. 2 Effect of total volumetric flow rate on the yield of 4-NBDT in the capillary microreactor at the same residence time (the molar ratio of HBF4, NaNO2 and PNA was 2.72:1.05:1, TD = 25 °C, and tD = 2.3 s)

The total volumetric flow rate must be determined to ensure an efficient mixing performance when operating such a fast di- azotization reaction in a microreactor system. Figure 2 shows the effect of the total volumetric flow rate on the yield of 4- NBDT at the same residence time. The mixing performance of two feed solutions was improved in the T-micromixer and the following capillary when the total volumetric flow rate in- creased. [44] As shown in Fig. 2, the yield of 4-NBDT was basically the same for various volumetric flow rates from 2 to 15 mL/min, indicating that the mixing performance was not a limiting factor for the diazotization performance under the involved experimental conditions. That is, the mixing was excellent and fast enough for the diazotization. All the follow- ing experiments were operated with a total volumetric flow rate of 2 mL/min (QA = QB = 1 mL/min) for the continuous- flow diazotization process.

involved operational conditions. Hence, the highest 4- NBP yield of 99% was achieved with the residence time of 13 min in the capillary microreactor system.

homogeneous Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reactions. [19, 20] Ionic liquid (IL) was used to transform the heterogeneous Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction to a homogeneous state and implemented in a continuous-flow microreactor sys- tem. [21] Due to the better mixing performance of microreactor, the yield and selectivity were improved than the batch reactor. Next, a droplet-based microreactor was used in the IL-based Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction to solve the clogging problem in the microchannel. The yield in droplet-based microreactor was improved 9.3% compared to the traditional batch reactor, but there was only a slight increasement compared to the single-phase microreactor. [22] Buchwald and Jensen also developed an automated droplet-flow microfluidic system for the optimization of Pd- catalyzed Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reactions. [23] Integrated automation and online analytics can study Pd source, ligand, and continuous variables simultaneously, giv- ing efficient optimization and understanding of the reaction process. The majority of the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction studies, as mentioned above, used halogenated electrophiles. In recent years, arenediazonium salts have attracted signif- icant attention as aryl electrophilic components because they can be easily produced from corresponding aromatic amines with high yield and are more reactive than halogenated hydro- carbons. [24, 25] Its application in cross-coupling reactions has been extensively studied by researchers. [26–29] The re- action of aniline with HNO2 to synthesize the arenediazonium salts is called diazotization. [12] As the aromatic amine diaz- otization process was exothermic and rapid, it should be con- ducted at low temperatures in a batch reactor to decrease the safety risk. [30, 31] Simultaneously, the thermal instability of the diazonium intermediate and the uncontrollable thermal decomposition of arendiazonium salts increased the require- ments of the reactors heat transfer capacity. Organ et al. [32] reported a three-step continuous-flow system (diazotization, iododediazotization and Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reac- tion) constructed by three pieces of PFA capillary tubing (ID = 1.52 mm) with different volumes. Biphenyl compounds were continuously produced from aniline derivatives with sat- isfactory yields at 60 °C and the total reaction time was about one hour. Except this study combining the diazotization with the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction in microreactors, more studies about diazotization in microreactors were used for the other twoor multi-step reactions, such as Heck- Matsuda reaction, [33, 34] Balz-Schiemann reaction, [17,

The schematic overview of the capillary microreactor system is shown in Fig. 1. Twosteps, namely the diazotization and the Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction, were operated sepa- rately in this work. In the diazotization step synthesizing 4- NBDT, Solution A was prepared by dissolving PNA and HBF4 in MeCN with the fixed PNA concentration of 0.81 mol/L, while Solution B consisted of NaNO2, s- trioxane (internal standard, 0.08 mol/L) and water. The volu- metric flow rate ratio of Solution A to Solution B was fixed at 1. Solution A and B were delivered into the capillary microreactor system by two syringe pumps (NE-1200, New Era Pump System, Inc., United States). Both these two solu- tions were preheated to the set temperature in coiled capillaries before they mixed in a polyetheretherketone (PEEK) micromixer. The residence time for the diazotization could

flow process with the use of the capillary microreactor, and the reaction efficiency was promoted with shorter reaction time and lower cost catalyst. In short, the microreactor shows ex- cellent application potential for both the diazotization and the following Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction. Nevertheless, there are still lots of work to be done in the future such as combining these two steps into one continuous-flow microreactor system by choosing more effi- cient solvents.

Fig. 8 Effect of MeCN on the yield of 4-NBP in the capillary microreactor (tS = 3.92 min, TS = 25 °C, Pd(OAc)2 = 1 mol%, and C(HNO3) = 11.5 mmol/L)

Fig. 5 Effects of reaction temperature and residence time on the yield of 4-NBDT in the capillary microreactor with a constant molar ratio of HBF4, NaNO2 and PNA (2.72:1.05:1)

Fig. 6 Effect of the concentration of HNO3 on the yield of 4-NBP in the capillary microreactor system (QC = 0.05 mL/min, QD = 0.25 mL/min, tS = 7.85 min, TS = 25 °C, and Pd(OAc)2 = 1 mol%)

