Table 2 shows the comparison between batch and continu­ ous flow reactions. Hence, the space-time yield of the micro­ reactor was two orders of magnitude higher than the batch reactor. Reaction temperatures in microreactors are lower than in batch reactors, and the duration in flow systems is much shorter. Moreover, the total inventory of reactants in the microreactor was smaller than that in the batch reactor. It was the crucial point making microreactors inherently safer.

In this context, using small volume reactors and con­ tinuous reaction processes is an attractive and safe way to perform nitration experiments. Compared with the batch reactors, the advantages of the microreactor are the high surface to volume ratio, small online liquid holding capac­ ity, and small dimensions of pathways. The specific sur­ face area in microreactors can achieve 103 to 104 m2·m− 3, which is one to two orders of magnitude higher than that of the batch reactor [19–24]. Therefore, the microreactor has high heat transfer efficiency and can ensure the tempera­ ture stability of the reaction process. The high heat trans­ fer and heat removal efficiency and continuous operation process reduced the risk of thermal runaway and improved the essential safety of the reaction process. On the other hand, due to the tiny microchannel size, the total amount

Continuous flow nitration of m-xylene is illustrated in Fig­ ure 1 and Figure 2. The experimental setup consisted of three metering pumps. Solution 1 contains m-xylene and dichloromethane (DCM) (1:1, w/w), solution B (nitric acid, 98 wt%), solution 3 (sulfuric acid, 80 wt%). Solutions 1 and 2 were introduced to the microreactor (a) via metering pumps a and b. Solution 3 and the solution of microreac­ tor (a) entered the microreactor (b). The temperature control system of the two microreactors is controlled by high and low-temperature circulation equipment. Samples were col­ lected in a fixed quantity of ice-cold water at different outlets (corresponding to other residence times). The primary body

Compared with the nitration method of m-xylene reported in the literature, the conversion rate and mono-nitro prod­ ucts selectivity have good advantages, providing a new pathway for industrial production. A comparison between batch and continuous flow reaction modes was also pre­ sented. The results show that the microreactor has apparent advantages in reaction time, temperature, and space-time yield. This also indicates that the tandem nitration process method is applicable and provides an essential strategy for the kilograms-scale synthesis of aromatic nitration reactions in microreactors.

for industrial production. Entry 6 in Table 1 shows the reac­ tion with m-xylene in a microreactor using a mixed acid as a nitrating agent. Compared with the entry 6 this work has four advantages. First, the throughput is 1 kg/h, higher than 16.6 g/h. Second, the residence time is 104 s, lower than 6 min. Third, the selectivity is also higher than entry 6. Four, the conversion of this work was 99.5%, and entries 6 was 90%. Unlike the phenomena observed during the entry 6 experimental, this work did not show blockage or other faults. The pressure drop is also lower than the maximum upper limit of the pump (2 mPa). The comparison of the above experimental data is sufficient to prove the applicabil­ ity of the experimental method designed in this paper. The comparison of reaction time, conversion, and selectivity are the most reported advantages in the literature for industrial production.

Comparison of batch and continuous flow reaction

Several reviews have demonstrated that microreactor technology can successfully perform nitration reactions [40–42]. However, there are still bad cases of process design and scale-up of highly exothermic reactions in a microreac­ tor. Here we focus on design. Process safety should draw more attention as the enlarged reactor may not be inherently safe anymore. We first used the process parameters for the synthesis of nitro m-xylene in a batch reactor as the basis for our study. A two-step nitration process consisting of two microreactors connected in series was designed. Finally, we compare the process with those reported in the literature and provide an outlook.

m-xylene with mixed acid. Prepared mixed acid solution and m-xylene solution introduced into the microreactor by two metering pumps and adjusted the molar ratio of nitric acid to m-xylene by changing the volume flow rate and increasing the residence time by increasing the microchan­ nel plate. The synthesis route is shown in scheme 1.

Where V, Qaq, and Qor are the microchannel volume, aque­ ous volumetric flow rate, and organic volumetric flow rate.

Journal of Flow Chemistry (2022) 12:327–336

