In this work, a continuous-flow microreaction system has been developed to perform the diazotization

2.3. Experimental procedure of the continuous-flow process

magnetic stirring controller was used to control the speed of the magnetic stirrer in order to ensure the uniform distribution of the suspensions. The schematic diagram and photo of the membrane dispersion microreactor are shown in Fig. 4, and it is also fabricated from stainless steel material. Solution A was dispersed by the membrane as a dispersed phase and solution B flowed continuously in the microchannel as a

continuous phase. The diameter of the membrane pore was 1 μm, and the dimension of the microchannel was 10 mm (length) × 2 mm (wide) × 0.33 mm (height).

3.1. Optimization of experimental conditions in the microreaction system

3.5. The comparison of the continuous-flow process and batch process

Over the last two decades, microreaction technology has been rapidly developed and attracted a lot of attentions. It has been utilized in various industrial reactions to improve the conversion and process safety because of its inherent advantages of large specific interfacial area and short molecular diffusion distance.13–20 Among them, the applications of microreaction technology in the diazotization reaction are widely discussed.5–8,21,22

Continuous-flow diazotization of red base KD hydrochloride suspensions in a microreaction system†

As shown in Fig. 2, solution A (NaNO2) was conveyed into capillaries (PTFE, 2.0 mm inner diameter, 3.0 mm outer diameter) by constant-flow pumps (pump01, Beijing Satellite Manufacturing Co., Ltd.). Since solution B was a suspension, it was not suitable for the transportation by a constant-flow pump. In this system, solution B was firstly conveyed into a high-pressure piston kettle with stirring via a peristaltic pump (pump 03, Beijing Satellite Manufacturing Co., Ltd). Then, the constant-flow pump (pump 02, Beijing Satellite Manufacturing Co., Ltd.) was used to convey water to the top of the high-pressure piston kettle. The water squeezed the piston and pressed out solution B into the microreaction system to react with solution A. A delay loop tube (PTFE, 2.0 mm inner diameter, 3.0 mm outer diameter) was connected to the outlet of the membrane dispersion microreactor. The diazotization reaction of red base KD occurred inside the microreactor and the delay loop tube. Both the microreactor and delay loop tube were submerged in a water bath to control the reaction temperature. The reaction time was controlled by changing the length of the delay loop tube. The mixture solution from the outlet was directly added dropwise to the excess coupling component (solution C, 10 mL) that was stored in centrifuge tubes to quench the diazotization reaction. Then, as illustrated in Fig. 2, azo dyes were obtained through the diazo-coupling reaction.8,21 The concentration of the generated azo dye was quantified by UV- visible spectroscopy. Based on the quantitative relationship between the concentration of the diazonium salts and the azo dyes, the yield of the diazotization reaction could be obtained. In order to ensure the complete reaction between the diazonium salts and the coupling components to form azo dyes, the mixture solutions after the azo-coupling reaction were analyzed via the filter paper percolation ring test. This method was used for the rapid detection of diazonium salts, and their detection process was reported in the literature.22

Fig. 4 Schematic diagram and photo of the membrane dispersion microreactor.

