For highly exothermic and mass-transfer-limited reactions, microstructured reactors are attractive devices to improve safety, reduce waste, and enhance product selectivity, as well as conversion.1−5 For a single microchannel reactor, the flow rate is often in the range of mL/min, which is suited for a g/h production rate. Scale-up is required to reach kg/h and ton/h production rates. A scale-up route in microchannel reactors can be achieved in three consecutive steps. First, the microchannel cross-sectional dimensions are scaled up while maintaining the mass and heat transfer properties of the single microchannel.6,7

flow is close to an ideal plug flow reactor, which minimizes axial dispersion and back-mixing.36,37 All of this explains the increased reaction rate in the BMMR compared to that in the batch reactor. Second, the trend of the reactant and products is the same for the single channel reaction and from the eight collected reaction channels. This means that the reaction performance was maintained when the multiphase flow was numbered-up in the BMMR under reactive conditions. Third, there was no systematic diﬀerence between the concentrations of the single channel to those of the eight channels. The results from the single channel in comparison to those of the eight channels vary randomly. The last observation is the diﬀerence in performance between the single channel and the eight channels seems to depend on the gas and liquid flow rates. To demonstrate the eﬀect of gas and liquid flow rates, the reaction performance at fixed liquid flow rate and varied gas flow rates is shown in Figure 10. Parts a, b, and c refer to three experiments done at diﬀerent total liquid flow rates of 7.5, 15, and 30 mL/min, respectively. As the gas flow rate increases, the gas bubble length increases, the slug length decreases, and the residence time decreases. Such an influence on the reaction performance is correctly observed in Figure 10a,b. However, in Figure 10c, the reaction performance seems random even for the single channel. The worse reaction performance at high gas and liquid flow rates can be explained by two factors. The first is that the flow distribution may become ineﬀective, resulting in varied residence time in the eight parallel microchannels. The second

changed in the range of 8−125 mL/min and the gas flow rate from 60 to 4750 mLn/min. For each specific experiment, the gas and the liquid flows were run for a few minutes until steady state was reached. Then, samples were taken and analyzed using GC as stated earlier. Samples were taken at two locations. The first location was before the collector block for one of the outlet streams from the reactor; the second location was after the collector block for the eight reaction channels combined. At each sampling location, two samples were taken at diﬀerent times to check the reproducibility. Because it was not possible to measure slug and bubble lengths, the residence time of Taylor flow was calculated on the basis of the combined gas and liquid superficial velocities and not on the bubble velocity. ■ RESULTS

aGL = specific gas−liquid interfacial area, m2/mreactor Ab = bubble cross-sectional area, m2 C = concentration, mol/m3 H = channel height, m hH2 = Henry's constant, mol/(m3 Pa) kGL = gas-to-liquid mass transfer, 1/s L = channel length, m LB = bubble length, m LS = slug length, m mcat. = catalyst concentration, g/L N = number of channels P = pressure, bar q = flow rate, m3/s R = gas constant, J/(mol K) r = reaction rate, mol/(gcatalyst min) U = superficial velocity, m/s W = channel width, m Greek Symbols ε = holdup τ = residence time (τ = LC/(UG + UL)), s Subscripts B = barrier C = microchannel of gas−liquid flow G = gas L = liquid

Liquid was pumped (v) using a gear pump (NHK Mikrosysteme GmbH, MZR-7205) via a liquid mass flow controller (vi) (Bronkhorst). Nitrogen (iii), hydrogen (i), and argon (iv) were fed from a gas bottle using mass flow controllers (Bronkhorst). The pressure was measured at the manifold using a pressure sensor (range 0−25 bar, Endress + Hauser, PMP131), and the temperature was measured using thermocouple type Pt100. The temperature in the reactor was regulated by placing the entire reactor in a water heating bath (Lauda). The gas−liquid separation was achieved in a 0.5 L stainless steel vessel (xiv) via gravity. The liquid level was monitored by a diﬀerential pressure sensor (PS4) and maintained by a PID control valve (Bronkhorst) (xvii) placed downstream from the gas−liquid separator. At the gas outlet, a back-pressure regulator (Bronkhorst) (xvi) was used to regulate the operating pressure of the entire setup. The experiments in the BMMR were conducted according to the following procedure. First, the substrate (phenylacetylene) and catalyst ([Rh(NBD)(PPh3)2]BF4) were dissolved in dichloromethane in the required quantities under inert conditions in a glovebox. The solution was placed in a liquid storage tank (i) and transported to the experimental setup. The liquid storage was then connected to an argon line. Next, the tubing and the liquid manifold were filled while the hydrogen was fed at very low flow rate. A flow of nitrogen to the gas− liquid separator was started to bring the system to the required operating pressure. During all of these processes, the water heating bath was switched on to reach the required temper- ature. The collector block and sample points were placed in an ice box to quench the reaction after the gas−liquid flows left the reactor. Once the required temperature and pressure in the reactor were reached, the BMMR experimental setup became ready for conducting a reaction experiment. The experiments were performed at a constant temperature of 70 °C and pressure of 10 bar. The liquid flow rate was

channel are compared to concentrations from the eight reaction channels combined. For more than 95% of the results, the diﬀerence in concentrations between the single channel and the eight collected channels remains within ±10%. Predicting what the corresponding flow nonuniformity is that leads to this percentage is not straightforward. This is because the reaction depends, in addition to the residence time, on the interfacial area, which could not be estimated because no information could be obtained about the slug and bubble lengths in this setup. Additionally, concluding whether the ±10% diﬀerence is acceptable will depend on the final application. This margin was obtained before any optimization of the reactor. It is expected that this marginal diﬀerence can be reduced by assuring that no slug and bubble coalescence occurs, and the slug and bubble lengths remain larger than the channel diameter. For example, this can be done by avoiding the transport channels in the BMMR setup (see Figure 2) and by placing the mixer in the reaction channel. Overall, the BMMR successfully demon- strated its potential for numbering up gas−liquid Taylor flow under reactive conditions. ■ CONCLUSIONS This paper aimed at providing a proof of concept of the capability of the barrier-based micro-/millichannel reactor (BMMR) to number-up gas−liquid Taylor flow under reactive flow conditions. The hydrogenation of phenylacetylene over a homogeneous catalyst [Rh(NBD)(PPh3)2]BF4 was used as a model reaction. First, kinetic parameters were estimated for the reaction by extending the work of Esteruelas et al.29 The kinetic model was capable of predicting the reaction behavior for a range of catalyst concentrations (0.48−1.24 g/L), hydrogen pressures (5−15 bar), and phenylacetylene concentrations (75−200 mol/ m3). The kinetic model predicted the experiments within an accuracy of 20%. Part of the catalyst proved ineﬀective when it was mixed with the solvent. The catalyst deactivated during the

millichannels reactor" (BMMR), which was presented in Al- Rawashdeh et al.25 and is shown in Figure 1. The BMMR is a modular reactor for conducting a multiphase (gas−liquid) reaction in eight parallel microor millichannels at a pressure of up to 20 bar and a temperature of up to 200 °C with a total liquid flow rate up to 150 mL/min. The BMMR was experimentally verified for varied gas and liquid flow rates, liquid viscosities, surface tensions, and reaction channel dimensions and materials.25 Gas−liquid channeling was prevented, and a flow uniformity of more than 90% was reached. However, no reaction study was made using the BMMR. In this paper, the eﬀect of reactive flow conditions on the concept of number-up in the BMMR is evaluated. The selective reduction of triple bonds and double bonds is an important transformation in synthetic organic chemistry.26

Early studies have used a pressure drop ratio ΔP̃B between 25 and 50 to distribute the flows in a microchannels reactor.17,18,22

conducting hydrogenation reactions.32−34 The micrometer- scale reaction channel accelerates the fluid mixing and heating and increases the specific interfacial area by more than 1 order of magnitude compared to the case of a typical slurry bubble column. This acceleration allows the reaction to occur in a very short time and allows precise temperature control resulting in clear-cut improvements in the conversion and selectivity. In this paper, the hydrogenation of phenylacetylene (PA) to styrene (ST) and ethylbenzene (EB) catalyzed by the cationic rhodium catalyst [Rh(NBD)(PPh3)2]BF4 is used as a model reaction to characterize the barrier-based micro-/millichannels reactor, the BMMR. The aim is to provide a proof of concept of the capability of the BMMR to number-up gas−liquid Taylor flow under reactive flow conditions. First, a parametric study is carried out to identify possible operating windows for the BMMR and to provide data for the kinetic model. The parametric study is conducted by changing hydrogen pressure, catalyst concentrations, initial concentrations of phenylacety- lene, and concentrations of styrene in a semicontinuous batch reactor using dichloromethane as a solvent. These parametric experiments are fitted by extending the kinetic model of Esteruelas et al.29 to take into account the production of styrene and ethylbenzene. Second, the reaction is conducted in the BMMR under diﬀerent gas and liquid flow rates while keeping the other operating conditions fixed. The number-up concept under reactive flow conditions is analyzed by comparing the reactant and products concentrations from a single reaction channel to those from the eight reaction channels combined. ■ EXPERIMENTAL SECTION

factor is that bubble coalescence occurs and the specific interfacial area varies considerably between the parallel microchannels. Because in this experimental setup it was not possible to measure slug and bubble lengths and flow nonuniformity, there was no possible way to study any of these two factors independently. When experiments were done without any reaction, the absolute value of slug and bubble lengths aﬀected flow distribution in the BMMR.25 Due to the sharp corner in the BMMR and when the slug length reduces to less than the channel diameter, which is possible in the above given reaction conditions, bubble coalescence occurred, which aﬀected the pressure drop and the flow distribution consecutively. Additionally, the reaction seems to depend on the gas-to-liquid mass transfer as already observed in the batch experiments. Thus, if any bubble coalescence occurred during the reaction in the BMMR, it will change the specific interfacial area and the mass transfer, resulting in diﬀerent reaction performance even at the fixed flow rates of a single microchannel reactor. Because it was not possible to quantify the eﬀect of specific interfacial area and the residence time on the reaction performance, it is not possible to generalize that flow distribution in the BMMR under reactive flow conditions and high flow rates is not eﬀective. More detailed reaction experiments in the BMMR under reactive flow conditions are needed to explicitly validate that. From the above analysis, it can be clearly stated that the reaction performance of the single channel and the eight reaction channels are aﬀected by the flow nonuniformity as well as by the slug and bubble lengths. Therefore, selective

However, such a large pressure drop ratio makes the barrier- based flow distributor an unattractive solution for number-up. The large energy consumption and lowering of the reactor operating window are some of the reasons for that unattractiveness. The authors have found that ΔP̃B can be reduced to a value of 4 by following a specific design methodology.23 That design methodology specifies cut-oﬀ values of the maximum allowed diameter and temperature deviations in diﬀerent parts of the reactor to keep flow nonuniformity below an acceptable limit.24 The outcome of that design methodology led to the "barrier-based micro-/

predicts the experiments well with an accuracy of ±20%. The inaccuracy only increases when the high hydrogen pressure of 15 bar is used. This is most likely due to the mass transfer limitation, which was pointed earlier in the initial rate studies at higher hydrogen pressure. Overall, the model shows the capability of predicting the reaction behavior. The kinetic model was tested for the hydrogenation of styrene to ethylbenzene as shown in Figure 8. The kinetic model accurately predicted the hydrogenation of styrene to ethylbenzene. This also confirmed the capability of the model to describe the reaction behavior at varied operating conditions. BMMR Setup Experiments. Experimental results obtained for the hydrogenation reaction in the BMMR setup are shown in Figure 9. Reactant and product concentrations were measured at varied gas and liquid flow rates for the two sample locations shown in Figure 2xiii. One sampling location was taken before the collector block at the outlet of one reaction channel; the other sampling location was taken after the collector block for the eight reaction channels combined. Concentrations from both samples were compared with each other to provide an indication of the eﬀects of the number-up in the BMMR. Three sets of experiments were performed at the same operating conditions as experiment 7 in Table 1. The diﬀerence between them was the amount of prepared reactant solution at 0.5, 1, and 1.5 L for (a), (b), and (c), respectively. A larger amount of reactant solution allowed us to take more sampling points at a wider range of gas and liquid flow rates. It is important to mention that the aim of the study in Figure 9 is to compare the single channel result to that of the eight collected channels to give an indication about the eﬀect of the number-up. Thus, variation in the results between (a), (b), and (c) will not be addressed here. However, possible reasons for

(1) Kockmann, N.; Roberge, D. M. Harsh Reaction Conditions in Continuous-Flow Microreactors for Pharmaceutical Production. Chem. Eng. Technol. 2009, 32, 1682−1694. (2) Charpentier, J. C. In the Frame of Globalization and Sustainability, Process Intensification, a Path to the Future of Chemical and Process Engineering (Molecules into Money). Chem. Eng. J. 2007, 134, 84−92. (3) Wiles, C.; Watts, P. Continuous Flow Reactors: A Perspective. Green Chem. 2012, 14, 38−54. (4) Hessel, V.; Cortese, B.; de Croon, M. H. J. M. Novel Process Windows - Concept, Proposition and Evaluation Methodology, and Intensified Superheated Processing. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2011, 66, 1426− 1448. (5) Anxionnaz, Z.; Cabassud, M.; Gourdon, C.; Tochon, P. Heat exchanger/reactors (HEX reactors): Concepts, technologies: State-of- the-art. Chem. Eng. Process. 2008, 47, 2029−2050. (6) Kockmann, N.; Gottsponer, M.; Roberge, D. M. Scale-Up Concept of Single-Channel Microreactors from Process Development to Industrial Production. Chem. Eng. J. 2011, 167, 718−726. (7) Hornung, C. H.; Mackley, M. R.; Baxendale, I. R.; Ley, S. V. A Microcapillary Flow Disc Reactor for Organic Synthesis. Org. Process Res. Dev. 2007, 11, 399−405. (8) Hessel, V.; Knobloch, C.; Loewe, H. Review on Patents in Microreactor and Micro Process Engineering. Recent Pat. Chem. Eng. 2008, 1, 1−16. (9) Lerou, J. J.; Tonkovich, A. L.; Silva, L.; Perry, S.; McDaniel, J. Microchannel Reactor Architecture Enables Greener Processes. Chem. Eng. Sci. 2010, 65, 380−385. (10) Roberge, D. M.; M, G.; Eyholzer, M.; Kockmann, N. Industrial Design, Scale-Up, and Use of Microreactors. Chim. Oggi 2009, 27, 8− 11. (11) Schenk, R.; Hessel, V.; Hofmann, C.; Loewe, H.; Schoenfeld, F. Novel Liquid-Flow Splitting Unit Specifically Made for Numbering-Up of Liquid/Liquid Chemical Microprocessing. Chem. Eng. Technol. 2003, 26, 1271−1280. (12) Saber, M.; Commenge, J. M.; Falk, L. Heat-Transfer Characteristics in Multi-Scale Flow Networks with Parallel Channels. Chem. Eng. Process. 2009, 49, 732−739. (13) Nieves-Remacha, M. J.; Kulkarni, A. A.; Jansen, K. F. Gas-Liquid Flow and Mass Transfer in an Advanced-Flow Reactor. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2013, 52, 8996−9010. (14) Chambers, R. D.; Fox, M. A.; Holling, D.; Nakano, T.; Okazoe, T.; Sandford, G. Elemental Fluorine, Part 16. Versatile Thin-Film Gas- Liquid Multi-Channel Microreactors for Effective Scale-Out. Lab Chip 2005, 5, 191−198. (15) Huebner, S.; Bentrup, U.; Budde, U.; Lovis, K.; Dietrich, T.; Freitag, A.; Kupper, L.; Jahnisch, K. An Ozonolysis-Reduction Sequence for the Synthesis of Pharmaceutical Intermediates in Microstructured Devices. Org. Process Res. Dev. 2009, 952−960. (16) Metzke, D. Chemical Micro Process Technology: The Catalouge - Falling Film Microreactor; Institut fur Mikrotechnik Mainz: Mainz, Germany, 2013 (a technical manual, www.imm-mainz.de). (17) Losey, M. W.; Jackman, R. J.; Firebaugh, S. L.; Schmidt, M. A.; Jensen, K. F. Design and Fabrication of Microfluidic Devices for Multiphase Mixing and Reaction. J. Microelectromech. Syst. 2002, 11, 709−717. (18) De Mas, N.; Gunther, A.; Kraus, T.; Schmidt, M. A.; Jensen, K. F. Scaled-Out Multilayer Gas-Liquid Microreactor with Integrated Velocimetry Sensors. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2005, 44, 8997−9013. (19) Kashid, M.; Gupta, A.; Renken, A.; Kiwi-Minsker, L. Numbering-Up and Mass Transfer Studies of Liquid-Liquid Two- Phase Microstructured Reactors. Chem. Eng. J. 2010, 158, 233−240. (20) Tonomura, O.; Tominari, T.; Kano, M.; Hasebe, S. Operation Policy for Micro Chemical Plants with External Numbering-Up Structure. Chem. Eng. J. 2008, 135, S131−S137.

three-way valve; the last side inlet was connected to a funnel that will contain the concentrated substrate plus the solvent solution. Agitation was provided via a magnetic stirring bar. The pressure was maintained by keeping the gas side open to a hydrogen cylinder while the pressure was fixed using a pressure regulator valve. The experimental procedure was carried out as follows. The catalyst [Rh(NBD)(PPh3)2]BF4 was weighed and dissolved in dichloromethane. The solution was pressurized with hydrogen and then heated up to the required temperature while stirring at 1100 rpm. After a stabilization time of 30 min, a solution of phenylacetylene in dichloromethane was added, and this was taken as the starting time zero of the reaction. For each experimental run, samples were taken at diﬀerent reaction times. The samples were analyzed using gas chromatography (Varian 3800) with a FID detection system. The liquid phase concentrations were measured from calibration curves generated for each species using the internal standard (n- dodecane). Phenylacetylene, styrene, ethylbenzene, and n- dodecane were obtained from Sigma-Aldrich. Experimental Procedure: BMMR Setup. A process flow diagram of the BMMR experimental setup is shown in Figure 2. Key dimensions of the BMMR are given in Table 2. Reaction

Equation in the Gas Phase Pure hydrogen was used in the the gas phase. The hydrogen consumed by the reaction which changes the gas flow rate as

reaction time. A model to predict catalyst deactivation was incorporated into the kinetic model. Even with catalyst deactivation, the developed kinetic model was of use for evaluating the BMMR performance. Second, the model reaction proved to be a suitable one for characterizing the number-up concept for gas−liquid Taylor flow in the BMMR. The reaction performance in the BMMR was 10 times faster compared to that of the batch experiment made at the same conditions. This is most likely because activation of the catalyst in the BMMR happened in situ, there is less possibility of catalyst deactivation, gas-to-liquid mass transfer is enhanced, and axial dispersion and back-mixing are at a minimum in the BMMR. However, in batch setup, the hydrogen comes into contact with the catalyst before the reaction started, during the heating step, which increases the chance of catalyst deactivation. The reaction conversion and selectivity were sensitive to flow nonuniformity and slug and bubble lengths in the BMMR. For more than 95% of the results, the diﬀerence in concentrations between the single channel and the eight combined reaction channels remained within ±10%. This result was achieved before any reoptimiza- tion of the reactor design and operating conditions. As a proof of concept, the number-up concept of gas−liquid Taylor flow in the BMMR under reactive flow conditions was successfully realized. ■ APPENDIX

but number-up remains mostly restricted to the laboratory scale with a few reporting at the pilot scale14,15 such as the stacked falling film microreactor.16 This is due to the complexity and expenditure needed for an adequate number-up with an equal distribution of the gas and liquid flows over multiple microchannels.17−21

converts to styrene with a maximum selectivity up to 80%. The production of ethylbenzene linearly increases until all styrene is consumed. The results obtained from the batch experiments are used to estimate the kinetic parameters via fitting. Initial Rate Studies. In Figure 4, initial rate studies are presented as a function of catalyst concentrations, hydrogen pressure, and initial concentrations of phenylacetylene. In all studies, similar initial rates of reaction for styrene and phenylacetylene are obtained. For ethylbenzene, the initial

†Laboratory of Chemical Reactor Engineering, Department of Chemical Engineering and Chemistry, Eindhoven University of Technology, P.O. Box 513, 5600 MB Eindhoven, The Netherlands ‡Institute of Fluid Dynamics, Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden-Rossendorf, Bautzner Landstraße 400, 01328 Dresden, Germany §Institut für Chemie und Biochemie, Freie Universität Berlin, Fabeckstraße 34−36, 14195 Berlin, Germany

ABSTRACT: This paper provides a proof of concept for the capability of the barrier-based micro-/millichannels reactor (BMMR) to number-up gas−liquid Taylor flow under reactive flow conditions. The hydrogenation of phenylacetylene to styrene and ethylbenzene using homogeneous cationic rhodium catalysts [Rh(NBD)(PPh3)2]BF4] (NBD = norbornadiene) was used as a model reaction. First, a parametric study in a semicontinuous batch reactor was made by changing the hydrogen pressure, the catalyst concentrations, and the initial concentrations of phenylacetylene and styrene. A mechanism for this reaction system has been proposed by Esteruelas et al. (J. Org. Chem. 1998, 49−53). This mechanism was extended here to develop a kinetic model which predicts the experimental result within an accuracy of 20%. Catalyst deactivation was observed and incorporated in the kinetic model. Second, the reaction was conducted in the BMMR. The reactant and product concentrations of a single channel were compared to those of eight parallel channels combined. For 95% of the obtained results, the diﬀerence in concentrations between the single channel and the eight channels was within ±10% and depended on the gas and liquid flow rates. As a proof of concept, the number-up concept of gas−liquid Taylor flow in the BMMR under reactive flow conditions has been successfully realized. ■ INTRODUCTION