dH Hydraulic diameter of the microchannel inlet, m q Volumetric flow rate ratio of organic liquid to aqueous solution VR Volume of the microchannel internal, mL C0 A Fluid-phase inlet reactant concentration, mol⋅L-1

A schematic diagram of the micro-reaction system set-up for the o xylene nitration reaction is shown in Fig. 1. The micro-reaction system is made up of four primary units: feed unit, reaction unit, quenching unit, and separation unit. The o-xylene solution and nitric acid solution in the feeding unit were introduced into the microchannel reaction unit as the dispersed phase and the continuous phase, respectively, using two high precision metering pumps (Sanotac-MPF0502C, Shanghai, China; flow rate, 0–100.00 mL⋅min−1; pressure range, 0–4 MPa). Subsequently, the o-xylene and nitric acid solutions passed through the pre-cooling coil (PTFE, inner diameter: 1 mm) into the microreactor for rapid mixing and reaction, respectively. The reaction unit consisted of a set of micro- channel plates with a heart cell structure, as shown in Fig. 2 (Shandong Weijing Chemical Technology Co., Ltd.; total internal volume: 30 mL; material: Hastelloy). The temperature control of the reaction unit was maintained by high and low-temperature circulation equipment (GDSZ 50L/-30 ◦C, Zhengzhou Ruihan Instrument Co., Ltd., China) to keep the temperature of the reaction process stable. The residence time was ob- tained by varying the flow rate or increasing the number of channel plates. After the reaction, an aqueous solution was introduced at the outlet of the microchannel plate for the quenching reaction by a high precision metering pump, and the entire quenching unit (PTFE, length: 2 m; inner diameter: 1 mm) was submerged in an ice-water bath. Finally, the quenched mixture enters the separation unit for static sep- aration. The organic phase is located in the upper layer containing nitro compounds and o-xylene, and the lower layer is the aqueous phase of nitric acid. The organic layer is washed with NaOH aqueous solution and deionized water, separately, and then dried with Na2SO4 to obtain the

In microreactors, the flow rate is an important factor in controlling the flow pattern and influencing the mixing efficiency. The nitration

reaction of o-xylene is a liquid–liquid heterogeneous reaction system, and the mixing performance directly affects the reaction process. The flow pattern for the two-phase liquids in the microreactor was calculated to be laminar flow based on the calculation of Re, suggesting radial diffusion as the primary mixing mechanism. The effect of flow rate on the reaction was explicitly examined in Fig. 6. Results indicate that an increase in conversion rate and a decrease in ploy-nitro impurities content are observed with increasing flow rate. When the volume flow rate exceeded 40 mL/min, the conversion trend weakened, indicating that increasing the flow rate further would not result in higher conver- sion. When the volume flow rate increases, the content of poly-nitro impurities in the nitration process of o-xylene decreases. This phenom- enon is attributed to the fast and highly exothermic nature of the het- erogeneous liquid–liquid reaction system. When the two-phase fluid is poorly mixed, temperature and concentration gradients are created, which can cause poly-nitration at a high molar ratio of nitric acid to o xylene. The solution of o-xylene and nitric acid mixture first passes through the nozzle and collides with the U-shaped obstacle, which bi- furcates the mixed stream into two sub-streams. The collision causes lateral movement, thus increasing the interface area for diffusion, resulting in improved mixing performance [41]. This is similar to the conclusions reported in the literature when the flow rate reaches 40 mL/ min, there is a recirculation zone adjacent to near the U-shaped obstacle in the microchannel, and a Dean vortex is formed in the region of the heart-shaped bend area [42]. The centrifugal gradient in the channel cross-section generates a transverse advection or Dean vortex that en- hances the mixing process by facilitating a stretching and folding mechanism and ultimately improves the mixing performance and con- version rate [43,44].

tration, the average density of the two immiscible liquid phases, the average viscosity of the two immiscible liquid phases, the volume frac- tion, and the amount of substance. dH is equivalent diameter of the microchannel inlet, 1.13 × 10-3 m; VR is microchannel total internal volume, 30 mL. The fluid properties of o-xylene and nitric acid param- eters were presented in Table 2. The dimensionless number of Reynolds number (Re), Capillary number (Ca), and Dean number (De) describing the flow behavior and mass transfer behavior of the two-phase liquid in the microchannel are expressed as follows [31]:

conversion rate. By fitting, it was calculated that the reaction would not continue when the nitric acid concentration is below 70 %. Based on this result, this result enables one to derive the aqueous flow rate necessary for quenching. On the grounds of the result, one can safely quench the nitric acid concentration at the outlet of the microreactor by diluting it below 70 % under low-temperature conditions. This improvisation bolsters the safety of the nitration reaction, curbing the occurrence of secondary reactions.

reactor, a mathematical model for calculating the volumetric mass transfer coefficient was established. The mass balance of the o-xylene nitration reaction in the microreactor can be expressed as Eq. (13) [32,33].

In order to understand the mass transfer performance of the micro-

According to Kockmann et al. and Schwolow et al., it is possible to compare the characteristic reaction time with the characteristic heat transfer time to have a rough estimation. The calculated th is 0.02 s, which indicates that the reactants can be heated to the temperature set by the reaction in a very short time (0.02 s is negligible compared to the average residence time) [39,40]. However, it is important to note that the calculated th value may underestimate the actual value because of the thermal resistances that exist between the utility fluid and the pro- cess fluid. Including the thermal resistance of the metal further reduces the estimated value. Similarly, kinetic data from the experiment can roughly estimate the distribution of reaction temperatures as shown in Fig. 5. The simulated experimental parameters are shown in Supplementary Materials Table S1. Along the axial position of the microchannel, a "hot spot" is generated near the entrance as a result of the nitration reaction taking place predominantly in the front section of the microreactor. The o xylene conversion undergoes only a minor change with longer residence times, leading to a lower heat production rate, the reaction temperature subsequently decreases and becomes stable, and the temperature dif- ference between the maximum temperature and the reaction tempera- ture is approximately 8 K. Specifically, as the residence time increases, the temperature of the reactive mixture becomes more stable due to better heat dissipation. The results of the experiments have demon- strated that this temperature rise does not result in poly-nitration reactions.

3.6. Mass transfer in the nitration process in the microreactor

The molar ratio HNO3 (98 %) to o-xylene is 1, the total flow rate is 30 mL⋅min-1, τ is 1 min.

impact of inadequate mixing during polymerization, the researchers enhanced the mixing process by incorporating a premier into the reac- tion [26]. Yang et al. investigated the effect of advanced flow reactor mixing performance on the continuous production of nanomaterials. The results have shown that the variation of the flow rate ratio affects the initial concentration distribution profile, resulting in different mix- ing properties. With increased total flow rates, micro-mixing efficiency was found to also increase and subsequently led to a narrowing of the Particle Size Distribution (PSD) of Ag NPs [27]. While there is ample evidence in the literature that microreactor systems can effectively intensify mixing and mass transfer in chemical reactions, detailed theoretical studies on how these factors impact the nitration process of o-xylene have yet to be conducted. Microreactor technology provides an efficient method for nitration reactions, but its effectiveness is hindered by limited liquid mixing within the reactor, which primarily relies on intermolecular diffusion to facilitate liquid–liquid heterogeneous nitra- tion reactions. As such, there are several obstacles to overcome for the successful implementation of microreactor technology in this process [28]. Dimensionless numbers are useful to determine or compare the importance of physical or chemical processes in a system [29,30]. By considering these factors, it becomes possible to gain a better under- standing of how the interaction between hydrodynamics, mass transport and reaction performance influences the nitration reaction process in microreactors. In addition, the precise temperature control performance provides a basis for revealing the characteristics and mechanism of nitration reactions. For this reason, it is necessary to study the influence of mixing and mass transfer properties on the reaction. In this work, the effects of mixing performance and mass transfer for liquid–liquid systems intensification on the reaction process in the microreactor were systematically investigated by using the nitration reaction of o-xylene as a probe reaction. Firstly, the safety of the nitra- tion process was assessed by calculating the adiabatic temperature rise. Secondly, the effects of microreactor mixing and mass transfer on the nitration reaction process, such as flow rate, residence time, reaction temperature, and molar rate were investigated in detail. Finally, a ki- netic model was established to guide the nitration process of o-xylene in the microreactor.

Nitration reactions are extensively studied in organic synthesis despite their notorious dangers, high reaction rates, and heterogeneous reaction systems. To date, most industrial nitration reactions rely on conventional batch reactors characterized by low mass transfer rates and limited reaction conditions. In contrast, microreactors represent a valuable technology for intensifying such nitration reactions. In this work, we established a continuous flow system of o-xylene nitration and determined the kinetics and mass transfer. The effects of mixing performance, nitric acid concentration, molar ratio, reaction temperature, and residence time on the process safety were investigated separately. The experimental data is supported by dimensionless number calculations, providing a more comprehensive understanding of the nitration reaction's transport and reaction performance in a heart-shaped microreactor. Remarkably, the residence time of the heart-shaped microreactor was reduced by an order of magnitude, while the volumetric mass transfer coefficient was improved by several orders of magnitude compared to conventional stirred tank reactors. Moreover, the spent nitric acid could be efficiently recovered and reused after concentration, further enhancing the sustainability and cost-effectiveness of the process. Our findings demonstrate the significant potential of microreactors for intensifying nitration reactions and paving the way for the design and optimization of more efficient and safer synthetic processes.

where C0 A, ρM, μM, φ and nA, are the fluid-phase inlet reactant concen-

reactors to directly react with o-xylene for industrial production. Sec- ondly, the development of green chemical methods by employing various nitration agents. Thirdly, the utilization of continuous flow reactor technology enhances the fundamental safety of the nitration reaction process. In summary, the microreactor technology is effective and feasible for the intensification of the o-xylene nitration process and the study on the process of nitration reaction is relatively sufficient. However, the lack of theoretical studies on the nitration process of o xylene and the absence of reliable methods to accurately determine ki- netic data in microreactors present challenges in guiding industrial production. Therefore, there is an urgent need to improve the theoretical understanding of the process and develop a greener and more economical synthesis route. Meeting these challenges will be crucial to providing a better understanding of the parameters governing the re- action and enabling the development of more efficient and reliable ways to produce o-xylene. The mixing mode of the fluid in the reactor plays an important role in determining the success of the liquid–liquid reaction. For two reaction materials to successfully react, they must first come into contact with one another at a molecular scale. Therefore, the quality of mixing and fluid flow in the reactor has a direct impact on the degree to which materials can interact [23,24]. This is particularly important in fast nitration reactions. When the micro-mixing time of the liquid phase exceeds the characteristic reaction time, poor micro-mixing can lead to a situation in which the chemical reaction occurs before the materials have been fully mixed and homogenized [25]. The study by Song et al. focuses on the influence of mixing performance on the polymerization of acrylamide in capillary microreactors. The experiment showed that while a monomer conversion of 87 % was achieved within the capillary length, the characteristic mixing time calculation indicates that the re- action process did not reach a uniform mixing state. To mitigate the

3.1. Safety assessment of the nitration reaction process in the microreactor

Replacing the concentration with the conversion can obtain Eq. (17).

literature, as evidenced by the vast number of studies summarized in Table 1 [12–19]. Despite more than seven decades of research, the development of effective and sustainable methods for the nitration of o xylene remains a critical area of investigation. Attempts to address this challenge have led to the emergence of novel nitration agents, such as polyphosphoric acid, H-Y zeolite catalyst, carbon molecular sieve, nat- ural kaolinite clay, and sodium dodecyl sulfate. Although these methods have demonstrated high selectivity by using fuming nitric acid as a nitration agent and replacing waste sulfuric acid, they are time consuming (12 to 24 h) and unsuitable for industrial-scale production. Microreactor technology offers a new approach to enhancing the effi- ciency of the chemical synthesis process through its high specific surface area and small reaction volume, which boost heat and mass transfer in liquid–liquid systems. [20–22]. Microreactor technology has been proven to be an effective approach for nitration reactions in numerous studies. Sharma et al. reported continuous-flow nitration of o‑xylene. The effects of fuming nitric acid and mixed acids as nitration agents on the nitration reaction of o-xylene were investigated separately in a tubular reactor and the feasibility of process scale-up was analyzed. The findings indicated that the content of poly-nitro impurities was higher when sulfuric acid was present, while the yield of 1,2-dimethyl-4

where α is the heat transfer coefficient, and λf is the heat conductivity of the microreactor, 9.8 W⋅m−1⋅K−1. The heat transfer characteristic time can be obtained from the heat transfer coefficient α calculated by Eq. (20) and substituted into Eq. (21) [38].

h Channel height, mm w Channel width, mm Re Reynolds number Ca Capillary number De Dean number R Radius of curvature, mm KLa Volumetric mass transfer coefficient, s−1

