Since the flow state of the reaction in the microchannel is laminar, a laminar flow model was used. And the species transport model without response was set during mixing. The mass fraction was placed at one order upwind, and the velocity convergence was set to 10−6. 3.7.3. Validation of Mixed Eﬃciency. In order to better understand the flow conditions and two-phase flow rate distribution in the microreactor and determine the total pressure drop of the microreactor, CFD simulation is a necessary means of prediction and evaluation. Figure 7 shows

divergent sections to increase the mass transfer rate. The internal volume of the microchannel is 30 mL with 10 channel units. The residence time was changed by varying the number of plates. The flow rate of the target reaction layer is 0−100 mL/min, and the operating temperature and pressure are −30 to 200 °C and 0−20 bar, respectively. The model with a precise high-pressure pump is Sanotac-MPF0502C. The cooling circulation system is supplied by the refrigerated/ heated circulation unit (GDSZ-50L/−30 °C, Zhengzhou Ruihan Instrument Co., Ltd., China). The reaction temper- ature was monitored and recorded using a multichannel temperature logger. For accurate acquisition of reaction temperature data, temperature sensors are evenly distributed in the microreactor channels. The experimental setup is shown in Figure 1. 2.3. Experimental Procedures. Before starting the flow process, the flow rate of the plunger pump must be calibrated to provide an accurate flow rate. The channel must be cleaned with a dichloromethane solution to ensure that it contains no impurities. The experimental configuration for 2-ethylhexyl nitrate synthesis is illustrated in Figure 1. 2-Ethyl-1-hexanol (23.8 mL/min, 3.044 mol·L−1·min−1) and HNO3/H2SO4 mixed acid (26.2 mL/min, 3.96 mol·L−1·min−1) were introduced to the microchannel by plunger pumps, at a temperature of 15 °C, a total flow rate of 50 mL/min, and a residence time of 20 s. The residence time was controlled by changing the number of the channel plates. The reaction was quenched with ice water at the end of the response. The acid in the organic phase was neutralized with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate, and finally, the organic phase was washed with water until it was neutral. The liquid sample was collected from the organic phase. 2-Ethylhexyl nitrate had a purity of more than 99.6% through high-performance gas chromatog- raphy. 2.4. Materials. 2-Ethyl-1-hexanol (99.5% purity) was purchased from NanJing JuYou Technology Co., Ltd., China. Sulfuric acid (98 wt %) and fuming nitric acid (95 wt %) were purchased from NanJing University Science and Technology, China. Dichloromethane and ethanol were purchased from NanJing JuYou Technology Co., Ltd., China. All chemicals were used without further purification. 2.5. Sample Analysis. When the microreactor system is in a stable continuous reaction state, the sample is collected directly at the reactor outlet and quenched in ice water. The organic layer was removed with dichloromethane, neutralized with a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate, and diluted neutrally. To avoid the deviation caused by the sample storage, the GC sample was immediately measured by a high-

where r is the diameter of the inlet, 1.4 mm. We get the Reynolds numbers at the channel of the heart cells in the microreactor range from 20 to 160; therefore the behavior of the laminar flow is studied. The nonlinear relationship between the pressure drop and Reynolds number is depicted in Figure 10. The power-law ΔP = 0.0245Re1.4739 suggests that the significant friction on small scales is related to surface roughness or obstacles in the flow path. 3.8. Verification of the Model. Expert Design software was used to optimize the product yield, and the optimal experimental parameters are listed in Table 6. On the basis of

Figure 10. Pressure drop in microreactor at diﬀerent Reynolds numbers.

Figure 11. Microreactor Structure diagram of the scale up of the continuous flow nitration of 2-ethyl-1-hexanol. (a) Reaction delay mixed channel structure: groove depth, 5 mm; liquid volume, 100 mL. (b) Mixed channel structure: groove depth, 5 mm; liquid volume, 100 mL. (c) Heat transfer channel structure: groove depth, 5 mm; liquid volume, 140 mL. (d) Assembly diagram of microreactor.

approximately half the speed near the channel wall, thus resulting in a low-velocity zone between the two barriers. Recirculation zones are formed between these two obstacles, increasing the amplitude with rising flow rates, especially obvious under a flow rate reaching 30 mL/min. Several authors obtained the same simulation results, such as Nieves-Remacha et al.36 and Wu et al.37 According to the surface renewal theory, the vortex can increase the mass transfer area between the two phases, but not the more significant the flow rate. The larger, the better the increase of the flow rate will also lead to increased pressure drop, so it is essential to choose the right flow rate. According to eq 5 and an Re ranging from 20 to 160 in a microchannel with a hydrodynamic diameter of 1.4 mm, a laminar flow behavior is studied. The main control factor of the mass transfer in laminar flow of a heterogeneous two-phase liquid−liquid flow in a microreactor is diﬀusion. Diﬀusion mixing eﬃciency is usually expressed in terms of Fourier number (F0), which is defined as eq 7:

ABSTRACT: In this study, kilogram-scale synthesis of 2-ethylhexyl nitrate in a microreactor was reported. Using Box−Behnken experimental design, the eﬀects of process parameters such as temperature, molar ratio, total flow rate, and mass fraction of sulfuric acid on the yield of the target product were systematically investigated. The experimental design was studied at four factors and three levels. The results revealed that the sulfuric acid mass fraction and temperature significantly aﬀected the yield of the product. There was a good agreement between the experimental results and predicted results by the proposed regression model. Subsequently, the mixing eﬀect of the liquid−liquid heterogeneous system in microreactor was simulated by using computational fluid dynamics. The results provide solid evidence that the microreactor has excellent mixing eﬃciency in mass and heat transfer compared with the conventional reactor. Consequently, based on the results of process parameter optimization, an enlarged microreactor was designed to intensify the preparation of 2-ethylhexyl nitrate by a throughput of 16 kg/h. KEYWORDS: 2-ethylhexyl nitrate, microreactor, Box−Behnken model, computational fluid dynamics

Figure 7. Velocity profiles for 3D meshes in the microreactor. Velocity profiles are nondimensionalized by the maximum velocity (red), where Vmin = 0 (blue) for all cases and Vmax (red) varies with the total flow rate, accordingly (m/s): (a) 10 mL/min; (b) 30 mL/ min; (c) 50 mL/min; (d) 60 mL/min; (e) 80 mL/min.

calculations, the parameters of the best practice plan were obtained; it can be carried out safely and stably. The purity of 2-ethylhexyl nitrate can reach 99.6%, and the yield is 99%. Computational fluid dynamic simulations are carried out in the microreactor. Results showed an excellent mixed eﬀect with a flow rate range of 10 mL/min to 80 mL/min. The path lines of 2-ethyl-1-hexanol/mixed acid show that the total flow rate starts from 30 mL/min between the two obstacles within the heart-shaped reactor generating recirculation zones. Compared with the traditional batch reactor, the excellent mixing eﬀect of the microreactor breaks the mass transfer resistance, and the heat generated by the nitration reaction can be evenly distributed, eﬀectively reducing the generation of side reactions. Encouraged by laboratory-scale results, we directly scaled up the size of the microreactor and performed reaction experi- ments under the same conditions. With these results, the scale- up equipment has also been demonstrated to successfully conduct a kilogram-scale synthesis of 2-ethylhexyl nitrate. This study provides a rapid and straightforward method for the continuous synthesis of 2-ethylhexyl nitrate for kilogram-scale with a high yield and high selectivity and provides an essential model for the kilogram-scale synthesis nitration reaction of alcohol. ■AUTHOR INFORMATION

the same shape. The main reason is that excessive nitric acid easily causes the side reaction of 2-ethyl-1-hexanol to oxidize to isooctane. The yield of product decreases as the molar ratio of nitric acid increases. Therefore, it is vital to choose the best molar ratio to increase the product yield. 3.5. Eﬀect of Flow Rate. The flow rate is an essential parameter for the nitration reaction in the microreactor. According to the reaction mechanism, the synthesis of 2- ethylhexyl nitrate is a heterogeneous liquid−liquid reaction. The heterogeneous liquid−liquid response is controlled by mass transfer in a conventional batch reactor, and the stirring eﬀect is the primary means to break the mass transfer resistance. Therefore, it is necessary to study the influence of the mixing eﬀect of the reaction in the microreactor. In a microreactor, changing the flow rate is the most common method to improve mixing eﬃciency. It can be seen from Figure 4f that when the temperature is 10 °C, and the molar ratio is 1.2, the yield of 2-ethylhexyl nitrate does not increase significantly with the increase of the flow rate. It can be seen from Figure 4b and d that the flow rate has almost no eﬀect on the product yield. It may be due to the small size and large specific surface area of the microreactor, which promotes two- phase diﬀusion and improves the mass transfer eﬃciency. Therefore, to verify this conjecture, this work uses computa- tional fluid dynamics software to simulate the mass transfer and mixing eﬃciency of the microreactor.31−33

