intensification technology for a broad range of reaction processes in laboratory and industry. The features of microreactors such as larger surface-to-volume ratio, higher mixing efficiency, faster heat and mass transfer rates, and excellent spatiotemporal control, allow reaction processes to overcome the transport limitation and thus to have better performance (e.g., higher selectivity and yield) compared with con- ventional batch reactors. The entire operation processes in micro- reactors are streamlined from start to end, which improves production efficiency and reduces manufacturing cost. Moreover, by extending the microchannel length or simply operating multiple microchannels in parallel, microreactor systems can be readily scaled up to meet indus- trial production [15,16]. Up to date, microreactors have been reported to have plenty of applications in polymer chemistry [17]. Combined with the RDRP technology of strong molecular design capability, tailor-made polymers with various sequence compositions, such as gradient [18], multiblock [19] and unimolecular sequence-defined [20], have been synthesized in microreactors, displaying enhanced precision than those from batch counterparts [21–23].

2.2.2. Synthesis of homoarm star polymers in the cascade microreactor system Typically, for the synthesis of PBA homoarm star polymer (SPB) with the molar ratio of [BA]0/[DoPAT]0/[HDDA]0 = 100/1/10, the mixture of BA (2.5 M, 100 eq), DoPAT (0.025 M, 1eq), ABVN (2.5 mM, 0.1eq) and DMF were used to prepare linear arms. HDDA (0.5 M) dissolved in DMF and ABVN (0.01 M) dissolved in DMF were ready for the cross linking process. After the oxygen removal, they were loaded into sepa- rate gastight syringes. Two syringes containing the reaction solutions with the same compositions for the arm formation step were connected to two separate capillary microreactors with the same inner volume of 1.02 mL (Fig. S2a), with a targeted residence time τ1 of 2 h at a flow rate of 0.51 mL/h. Indeed, one syringe should be sufficient for this step. However, we adopted this kind of "pseudo-miktoarm" operation to stay close to the subsequent synthesis processes for miktoarm star polymers [30]. Afterwards, the cross-linker mixture and initiator mixture

2.2.1. Synthesis of linear polymers in the microreactor Typically, for the synthesis of linear PBA, a homogeneous solution was obtained by adding the monomer BA (2.5 M, 100 eq), the RAFT agent DoPAT(1 eq), the initiator ABVN (0.1 eq) and the solvent DMF into a dried flask sealed with a rubber septum, and then was purged with N2 for 30 min. A capillary microreactor with 1.02 mL inner volume was flushed with dry DMF to purge moisture and oxygen inside the system. Then the reaction mixture was introduced into the microreactor by a syringe pump at the designed flow rate. The microreactor was immersed in a water bath at 80 ◦C. After the flow inside the capillary microreactor reached a stable state, the effluent was collected by a vial immersed in an ice-water bath. Following solvent removal and re-dissolving in dichloromethane, the polymer product was precipitated in cold ethanol, filtrated and dried under vacuum at 70 ◦C for 12 h. Other linear polymers, e.g., homopol- ymers PACMO and random copolymers P(ACMO-ran-BA), were syn- thesized in the same way by varying the ACMO/BA molar ratio while keeping the total monomer concentration constant at 2.5 M.

feedstocks (both at the flow rate of 0.51 mL/h) mixed with the stream of synthesized linear polymers through two micromixers, so the concen- trations of reactants were diluted according to their flow rate ratio (Fig. S1). The newly combined stream was delivered into a second capillary microreactor with 4.08 mL for the star formation step, at a residence time τ2 of 2 h (total flow rate of 2.04 mL/h). Samples at steady state were collected after twice the total residence time τ (τ = τ1+τ2). Other homoarm star polymers with homopolymer or copolymer arms were synthesized similarly but by varying the ACMO/BA ratio at the first step for arm formation (Fig. S2b).

We first investigated the continuous-flow preparation of linear arms. BA and ACMO were selected as target monomers because their corre- sponding polymer chains were respectively hydrophobic and hydro- philic, which could be used to fabricate miktoarm star polymers. The highly active initiator ABVN was selected to ensure fast reaction rates as to avoid long reaction time. By adjusting the feed flow rate to achieve different residence times, we studied the RAFT homopolymerization kinetics of BA and ACMO, as shown in Fig. 2. Upon entering the capillary microreactor, the reaction mixture was heated from the room temper- ature to the set temperature and established the RAFT equilibrium. Although such a process was greatly benefited from the enhanced heat and mass transfer in the microreactor, the influence of this inhibition period on the conversion (X) could not be ignored especially when the residence time was short [32,33]. Only after the residence time excee- ded 30 min, the polymerization processes fitted the first-order kinetics well (Fig. 2a, d), indicating that the amount of active radicals remained

3.2.4. Kinetics of the coupling reaction in the cascade microreactor system Moreover, in the second step of the cascade microreactor system, we used l-PACMO with the chain length of nearly 40 as an example to study the coupling reaction kinetics from linear macromolecules to star shaped macromolecules. The flow rate of the combined stream was maintained constant, and τ2 was controlled by adjusting the inner vol- ume of the capillary (V2). Fig. 6 shows that the conversion of HDDA quickly exceeded 80% after 30 min. However, the reaction rate of HDDA decreased significantly when τ2 was longer than 30 min, not only because of the falling HDDA concentration but also due to the majority of the radicals' encapsulation within the cross-linked cores, leading to the enhanced diffusion resistance for HDDA to travel through the PACMO shell to react with those radicals [41]. With the increase of the coupling degree, the star yield increased from 36% at τ2 = 10 min to a plateau value of 75% at τ2 = 2 h. The MWD curve gradually expanded to the high MW region, but the trend would become less obvious. Therefore, τ2 was selected as 2 h for the subsequent continuous synthesis of various star polymers.

Accordingly, the GPC trace of the product moved slightly to a high MW region. Similar to Gao's report for preparing star polymers [39], the procedure of linear chains purification was omitted in our cascade microreactor system. Strictly speaking, the core was a copolymer of the cross-linker and the unreacted monomer. Such a structure could decrease the core's steric congestion, hence facilitating the incorpora- tion of arms into the star polymer, and vice versa. Nevertheless, for the microreactor operation herein, unreacted monomers and initiators were removed from linear chains and the cores were formed merely by the cross-linkers, which might weaken the optimization effect of enhanced mixing on MWDs. Moreover, we hoped to avoid tedious intermediate procedures of purification, separation and solution preparation, so as to achieve the continuous preparation of the targeted polymers from re- actants in the true sense. Chen et al. proposed the use of a packed plug in flow RAFT systems, which improved the mixing between different streams and benefit the MWD control of block copolymers [36]. We adopted their idea, and thus a plug packed with 40 mesh size SiO2 beads was assembled behind the T-micromixers for the second step in the cascade microreactor system (see Fig. S4). To our delight, more linear arms joined in the star struc- ture, causing an obvious shift of the MWD curve to the high MW region. The peak molecular weight of the star polymer component Mp2 was 5 times larger than that of the arm component Mp1 (Fig. 4b), suggesting that the enhanced mixing performance was indeed beneficial for increasing the star yield. Unfortunately, in the later exploratory exper- iments using formulas with larger contents of cross-linkers, microgels could form and then be adsorbed by SiO2 beads during the coupling reaction process. As the microgels aggregated, the resistance of the packed plug significantly increased and eventually blocked the micro- reactor system. It was difficult to rinse out the microgels from the packed plug effectively, and replacing the packed plug might affect the exper- iment's repeatability. Nevertheless, commercial mixing devices such as static micromixers [40] could be considered to replace packed plugs for further studies of mixing-related polymerization systems.

With the RAFT arm-first method, butyl acrylate and 4-acryloylmorpholine were used as monomers to form linear arms, which subsequently reacted with the cross-linker 1,6-hexanediol diacrylate to form star-shaped macro- molecules in cascade microreactor systems. After studying polymerization kinetics in each step, homoarm and miktoarm star products with various arm compositions were steadily prepared by optimizing the reaction flowsheet and adjusting the reactant formula. Such continuous-flow processing avoided tedious intermediate purification procedures and prepared polymer products with considerable star yield (>70%), molecular weights (Mw,LS > 100 kg/mol) and arm numbers (>30). Multiple emulsions (including two types, i.e., oil-in-water and water-in-oil) were formed utilizing star products with different amphiphilic architectures as emulsifiers. This study demonstrated that in this continuous-flow mode, through regulating the residence time and flow rate ratio in each step, the arm and core structures of star polymers were tailored to possess remarkable functional applications.

3.2. Study on the reaction conditions for preparing star polymers in the cascade microreactor system

2.2.3. Synthesis of miktoarm star polymers in the cascade microreactor system

3.2.2. Effect of the mixing performance The mixing process between polymer segments with fresh monomers was reported to remarkably influence the MWDs in chain extension re- actions [36,37]. Laminar flow profiles with low Reynolds numbers were obtained in our system, and the mixing process of different streams was dominated by the molecular diffusion [38], which could be enhanced by pre-mixing or utilizing auxiliary mixing equipment. For the second step, to eliminate the possible influence of uneven mixing, we first prepared a homogeneous mixture containing purified l-PACMO and HDDA, and then injected it into a capillary microreactor with 4.08 mL inner volume for the synthesis of SPA (more details in Supporting Information).

In this work, through combining the RAFT arm-first approach and microreactor technology, we succeeded in preparing star polymers with varied chain compositions in homemade cascade microreactor systems. First, the polymerization kinetics in the arm formation and star forma- tion steps were studied. Then, we analyzed the effects (reaction time, mixing performance, and reactant formula) on the star yield and MWDs of the polymer products in detail. Moreover, through adjusting the flow ratio of streams for the arm and star formation steps, various arms could be prepared in parallel simultaneously, and a series of star products were prepared with varied compositions and amphiphilic properties. Finally, these star products were directly used as emulsifiers to stabilize the toluene/water system, since they could remarkably lower the interfacial tension. In all, this continuous-flow processing with the use of micro- reactors offers a facile example of converting commercial monomers to functional polymers under mild conditions, avoiding the intermediate purification, and can integrate the parallel synthesis of various chain components. In future work, polymers with specified structures

Continuous synthesis of star polymers with RAFT polymerization in cascade microreactor systems

3.3. Synthesis of star polymers with varied compositions in the cascade microreactor system

[20] E. Baeten, J.J. Haven, T. Junkers, RAFT multiblock reactor telescoping: from monomers to tetrablock copolymers in a continuous multistage reactor cascade, Polym. Chem. 8 (2017) 3815–3824. [21] F.A. Leibfarth, J.A. Johnson, T.F. Jamison, Scalable synthesis of sequence-defined, unimolecular macromolecules by Flow-IEG, Proc. Nalt. Acad. Sci. 112 (2015) 10617–10622. [22] Y. Su, Y. Song, L. Xiang, Continuous-flow microreactors for polymer synthesis: engineering principles and applications, Top. Curr. Chem. 376 (2018) 44. [23] S.T. Knox, N.J. Warren, Enabling technologies in polymer synthesis: accessing a new design space for advanced polymer materials, React. Chem. Eng. 5 (2020) 405–423. [24] L. Xiang, Y. Song, M. Qiu, Y. Su, Synthesis of branched poly (butyl acrylate) using the strathclyde method in continuous-flow microreactors, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 58 (2019) 21312–21322. [25] O. Eckardt, B. Wenn, P. Biehl, T. Junkers, F.H. Schacher, Facile photo-flow synthesis of branched poly(butyl acrylate)s, React. Chem. Eng. 2 (2017) 479–486. [26] P. Sun, J.A. Liu, Z.B. Zhang, K. Zhang, Scalable preparation of cyclic polymers by the ring-closure method assisted by the continuous-flow technique, Polym. Chem. 7 (2016) 2239–2244. [27] B. Wenn, A. Martens, Y.-M. Chuang, J. Gruber, T. Junkers, Efficient multiblock star polymer synthesis from photo-induced copper-mediated polymerization with up to 21 arms, Polym. Chem. 7 (2016) 2720–2727. [28] P. Ye, P.F. Cao, Q. Chen, R. Advincula, Continuous flow fabrication of block copolymer–grafted silica micro-particles in environmentally friendly water/ ethanol media, Macromol. Mater. Eng. 304 (2019) 1800451. [29] D. Wang, W.J. Wang, B.G. Li, S. Zhu, Semibatch RAFT polymerization for branched polyacrylamide production: effect of divinyl monomer feeding policies, AIChE J. 59 (2013) 1322–1333. [30] J.H. Vrijsen, C.O. Medeiros, J. Gruber, T. Junkers, Continuous flow synthesis of core cross-linked star polymers via photo-induced copper mediated polymerization, Polym. Chem. 10 (2019) 1591–1598. [31] M.J. Monteiro, J. de Barbeyrac, Free-radical polymerization of styrene in emulsion using a reversible addition− fragmentation chain transfer agent with a low transfer constant: effect on rate, particle size, and molecular weight, Macromolecules 34 (2001) 4416–4423. [32] P. Ye, P.F. Cao, Z. Su, R. Advincula, Highly efficient reversible addition–fragmentation chain-transfer polymerization in ethanol/water via flow chemistry, Polym. Int. 66 (2017) 1252–1258. [33] L. Xiang, W.J. Wang, B.G. Li, S. Zhu, Tailoring polymer molecular weight distribution and multimodality in RAFT polymerization using tube reactor with recycle, Macromol. React. Eng. 11 (2017) 1700023. [34] C.H. Hornung, X. Nguyen, S. Kyi, J. Chiefari, S. Saubern, Synthesis of RAFT block copolymers in a multi-stage continuous flow process inside a tubular reactor, Aust. J. Chem. 66 (2013) 192–198. [35] W.-J. Wang, D. Wang, B.-G. Li, S. Zhu, Synthesis and characterization of hyperbranched polyacrylamide using semibatch reversible addition− fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT) polymerization, Macromolecules 43 (2010) 4062–4069. [36] F. Zhong, Y. Zhou, M. Chen, The influence of mixing on chain extension by photo controlled/living radical polymerization under continuous-flow conditions, Polym. Chem. 10 (2019) 4879–4886. [37] Y. Song, M. Shang, G. Li, Z.-H. Luo, Y. Su, Influence of mixing performance on polymerization of acrylamide in capillary microreactors, AIChE J. 64 (2018) 1828–1840. [38] M.H. Reis, T.P. Varner, F.A. Leibfarth, The influence of residence time distribution on continuous-flow polymerization, Macromolecules 52 (2019) 3551–3557. [39] H. Gao, K. Matyjaszewski, Structural control in ATRP synthesis of star polymers using the arm-first method, Macromolecules 39 (2006) 3154–3160. [40] J. Peng, C. Tian, L. Zhang, Z. Cheng, X. Zhu, The in situ formation of nanoparticles via RAFT polymerization-induced self-assembly in a continuous tubular reactor, Polym. Chem. 8 (2017) 1495–1506. [41] P. Liu, E. Landry, Z. Ye, H. Joly, W.-J. Wang, B.-G.J.M. Li, "Arm-first" synthesis of core-cross-linked multiarm star polyethylenes by coupling palladium-catalyzed ethylene "living" polymerization with atom-transfer radical polymerization, Macromolecules 44 (2011) 4125–4139. [42] A. Takano, M. Okada, T.J.P. Nose, Arm-number dependence of dimensions of star shaped polystyrene in a good solvent, Polymer 33 (1992) 783–788. [43] W. Li, Y. Yu, M. Lamson, M.S. Silverstein, R.D. Tilton, K. Matyjaszewski, PEO-based star copolymers as stabilizers for water-in-oil or oil-in-water emulsions, Macromolecules 45 (2012) 9419–9426. [44] B.P. Binks, S.O. Lumsdon, Influence of particle wettability on the type and stability of surfactant-free emulsions, Langmuir 16 (2000) 8622–8631. [45] M. Matos, B. Favis, P. Lomellini, Interfacial modification of polymer blends—the emulsification curve: 1. Influence of molecular weight and chemical composition of the interfacial modifier, Polymer 36 (1995) 3899–3907. [46] X. Shi, M. Miao, Z. An, Core cross-linked star (CCS) polymers with tunable polarity: synthesis by RAFT dispersion polymerization, self-assembly and emulsification, Polym. Chem. 4 (2013) 1950–1959. [47] A. Bak, W. Podgorska, Interfacial and surface tensions of toluene/water and air/ water systems with nonionic surfactants Tween 20 and Tween 80, Colloid. Surface. 504 (2016) 414–425. [48] Y. Nagasaki, T. Okada, C. Scholz, M. Iijima, M. Kato, K.J.M. Kataoka, The reactive polymeric micelle based on an aldehyde-ended poly (ethylene glycol)/poly (lactide) block copolymer, Macromolecules 31 (1998) 1473–1479.

structured product could show pH responsiveness and self-assembly in the aqueous phase. Moreover, Junkers et al. explored the continuous preparation of star polymers using the arm-first approach, and a cascade microreactor was built to combine arm and star synthesis processes, producing miktoarm and surface functionalized star polymers [30]. Inspired by Junkers' research, we developed a homemade cascade microreactor system to synthesis star polymers utilizing the RAFT arm first method. In this work, polymerization kinetics in the arm and star formation steps were studied, and the effects of reaction time, mixing performance and reactant formula on final product structures (e.g., star yields, molecular weights and arm numbers) were thoroughly investi- gated in order to achieve optimized molecular design. Moreover, by adjusting residence times and the flow rate ratio of the different streams, various arm compositions were targeted. Star products were conve- niently prepared in this continuous-flow processing, which had lower

s,LS over 100 kg/mol, with considerable star yields (over 70%) and arm numbers (around 35). Meanwhile, the intermediate purification process was avoided before the star formation step. Therefore, this continuous flow synthesis strategy is highly attractive since it can directly convert reactants to star polymers with varied compositions for potential applications.

centration and cross-linker/RAFT ratio in the reactant formula, as they have been reported to influence the properties of star polymers in batch operations [12,13]. Table 1 lists detailed information on the synthesis and characterization results of homoarm star samples prepared in the cascade microreactor system. The arm chain length was controlled by the initial molar ratio of monomers to RAFT agents and the monomer conversions. In particular, ACMO was almost entirely consumed in 2 h and the corresponding arm chain length approximately equaled [M]0/[RAFT]0. When [CL]0/ [RAFT]0 was maintained at 10, for samples from Entries 1–3, it could be seen from Fig. 5a that GPC traces of the products all exhibited bimodal distributions, inside which the low MW (high elution time) peak clearly overlapped with the linear arm peak. There were only a few examples reported without linear chains remaining for similar polymerization systems [12,30], and hence the observed behavior was rather typical. However, as the chain length of l-PACMO decreased from 100 to 20, the star yield for the corresponding product increased from 20% to 92%. Especially, for the sample from Entry 4, the product branched PHDDA could be regarded as a star polymer with the arm length of 0, and the GPC trace exhibited a unimodal distribution peak at a high MW region. At the star formation step, longer arms not only had weaker mobility but also occupied larger space, which hindered adjacent arms from access- ing the core sites and contacting the cross-linkers. In this case, the coupling efficiency was reduced and fewer arms per a star polymer would be obtained. The homoarm star PBA (SPB) products from Entries 10 and 11 also revealed similar regularity. On the other hand, the steric effect from longer arms limited the star star coupling reaction, narrowing the MWD of the star polymer. For shorter arms, they were more effectively inserted into the star structure

To demonstrate the versatility of our cascade microreactor system, we sought to expand experiments to synthesize star polymer products with various arm compositions. For homoarm star polymers, the arms could be homopolymers (l-PACMO or l-PBA) or random copolymers l-P

sion of ACMO reached 98% in 2 h, which was higher than that of BA (87%). In similar systems, the monomer conversion between 80 and 90% should be sufficient for the continuous preparation of block poly- mers [34]. Therefore, the residence time for the first step τ1 was set at 2 h in our current work. Both the arms, i.e., linear PACMO (l-PACMO) and linear PBA (l-PBA) synthesized in the first step bore a –SC(Z) = S moiety at the chain end originating from the RAFT agent. The cross-linkers were copolymerized with arms through the chain extension, resulting in the formation of cross-linked cores in the second step. Therefore, the molar ratio of the cross-linker molecules to the arm chains theoretically corresponded to [CL]0/[RAFT]0. We tried to set the residence time of the second step τ2 at 2 h and investigated the PACMO and PBA homoarm star polymer (SPA and SPB) formation processes at a [CL]0/[RAFT]0 of 10:1. However, as shown in Fig. 3, there appeared to be two major portions in molecular weight distribution (MWD) curves of the final products. The peak at the large MW portion was related to the star polymers, whereas the smaller MW portion was attributed to the residual (unreacted) arm precursors. Through a deconvolution technique to subtract the portion of the arm precursor component (assuming a Gaussian distribution) from MWD curves [35], it can be found that star yields of the collected samples were