for CO2 hydrogenation to methanol synthesis. Due to the limitation of heat transfer in fixed bed reactor, it is always challenging to avoid the hotspot and temperature runaway. The process intensification potential of microreactor has attracted attention in the field of energy technology. The specific features of microreactor mainly include: (1) enhanced heat and mass transfer, (2) narrow residence time distributions due to fast species exchange by diﬀusion in the small lateral dimensions, and (3) low pressure drop. Therefore, it is a particularly interesting choice for those gas conversion processes in which selectivity and conversion are closely related to the heat/mass transfer properties of reactor and catalyst. However, most existing methods of combining catalyst and microreactor are often constrained to certain disadvantages such as easily crushed layer for washcoating, hotspot and sintering for catalyst particles in fixed bed. Hence, the distinctive feature of heat and mass transfer ability of mi- croreactor could be hindered by directly filling catalyst particles into microchannel [11]. In our previous work, Cu-Zn-Al layer structure compounds were selected as the precursors [12–15]. Small Cu clusters were generated as the active sites for CO2 hydrogenation to methanol. The Cu-Zn-Al cat- alyst was synthesized through co-precipitation methods. The atomic level homogeneous dispersion of catalyst brought high stability and activity. In addition, catalyst particles were diluted with quartz sand and then tested in the fixed bed reactor [16]. A good catalytic

Fig. 2. A: the picture of microreactor in platform, B: outside view of microreactor, C: exploded view of microreactor, and D: screenshots of catalyst in chamber.

The monolithic catalyst and microreactor have been developed to enhance heat and mass transfer in the reaction system. The replacement and adhesion are significant in practicality in microreactor. Compared with present methods, the monolithic catalyst is more convenient in the replacement of spent catalysts, as other methods are often diﬃcult in changing the spent washcoating layer or catalyst particles in

summarized in Table 5. The high weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) used in microreactor can significantly increase the selectivity of me- thanol [48,49]. From 5000 to 20,000 mL gcat −1 h−1, the conversion of CO2 decreases from 15.1% to 9.9% while the selectivity of methanol increases from 46.4% to 82.7%. According to thermodynamic analysis in Fig. S2, the methanol selectivity (46.4%) at 5000 mL gcat −1 h−1 is close to methanol selectivity (47.0%) at equilibrium of 250 °C, 3 MPa [35]. Generally, with the growth of WHSV, methanol formation rate has a linear increase while the formation rate of side product, CO, is easy to reach equilibrium point to make the ratio of methanol to CO larger [50]. The variation tendency of methanol selectivity is in consistent with the literature [51].

in Table 2. The high CH3OH selectivity and yield have been achieved though the specific surface area and Cu dispersion of monolithic cata- lyst do not show a significant advantage. It is speculated that the ad- vance heat and mass transfer properties of the microreactor result in the high methanol selectivity of Cn-Zn/Al foam catalyst.

The test of CO2 hydrogenation to methanol was carried out in a microreactor. The photographs of the reactor and experimental plat- form are shown in Fig. 2A and B. The reactor system was insulated by an insulation box with quartz visualization window (180 mm squared). The reactor was made by 316L stainless steel assembled plates. The exploded view of microreactor is illustrated in Fig. 2C. The chamber (depth: 2 mm; width: 20 mm; and length: 50 mm) for monolithic cat- alyst was milled on a 3 mm thick 316 L stainless steel rectangular plate (Fig. 2D). The reaction substrate plate was bolted between two cover plates. Three electrical heating rods were inserted into each cover plate. Temperature distribution was measured by three K-type thermocouples which are evenly placed in bottom cover plate. High-temperature

3.2.2. The eﬀects of reaction conditions A parametric study was also carried out to investigate the eﬀect of reaction conditions on CO2 hydrogenation to methanol system. The synthesis of methanol (Eq. (2)) and the reverse water gas shift (RWGS) (Eq. (3)) are both thermodynamically limited reactions [35,44,47]. The influence of reaction temperature, pressure and space velocity on cat- alytic performance of CO2 hydrogenation in microreactor are sum- marized in Tables 3–5, respectively.

microchannel [52]. The adhesion test of layer structure on aluminum foam was performed in an ultrasonic vibrating instrument (JP-031S, Skymen Cleaning Equipment Shenzhen Co., Ltd) [53]. The result of adhesion test is shown in Fig. 8 and weight loss of 1#, 2#, 3# sample are 0.67%, 0.65%, 0.84%, respectively. The average value, only 0.7%, indicates a good adhesion property of our monolithic catalyst. Gen- erally, with the good practicality and property, the monolithic catalyst in microreactor has a great potential to intensify the reaction process.

In Eq. (4), Fin and Fout indicate the total flow rate at inlet and outlet of reactor; XCO in ,2 and XCO out indicate the concentration of CO2 at inlet and outlet of reactor; XN in ,2 and XN out indicate the concentration of N2 at inlet and outlet of reactor. In Eq. (5), X a in ( ) and X a out ( ) indicate the concentration of the components (a) at inlet and outlet of reactor. And nC a ( ) indicates the number of carbon atom in molecular formula. The copper time yield of methanol, noted as CH3OH Yield, which give the amount of CH3OH produced per gram of copper per hour, was defined by Eq. (6).

material, which demonstrates that the reactions in this study are not controlled by external diﬀusion. Moreover, three dimensional porous aluminum foam can keep an extremely low pressure drop under high gas flow rate. The thickness of layer structure obtained in present work is below 10 μm which is far less than 50 μm and it has been reported as a threshold layer thickness causing diﬀusion limitations [43]. The catalytic data presented in this study are not aﬀected by mass transport and the monolithic catalyst shows a good property of mass transfer. Compared with the literature, Cu-Zn/Al foam monolithic catalyst shows a good catalytic performance. A comparison of copper time yield of methanol is made among the present value (4.19 g gCu −1 h−1) and other yields using diﬀerent catalysts under the similar reaction condi- tions of 3 MPa, 250 °C, 10,000 mL gcat −1 h−1. The detail data are listed

