yield was observed in the native reactor at pH ) 2.8, as one can see in Figure 10, where the normalized absorption increases from 31% at 250 µL/min to its maximum at 8000 µL/min. It is even possible to fit these data to a linear function with a correlation coefficient of R2 ) 0.98 and a slope of approximately 0.08/1000 (µL/min). Clearly, this is due to the high degree of interaction between the particles (and particle seeds) with the channel walls. Accordingly, this effect is suppressed by employing higher sheer forces, i.e., enhancing the flow rate, since sheer forces are linearly dependent on the flow rate at laminar flow conditions. In summary, gold nanoparticles were synthesized in a glass-silicon microreactor at continuous flow conditions. The mean diameter and the width of the particle size distribution were adjusted by tuning experimental parameters such as flow rate, pH, excess of reducing agent, and concentration of PVP. Particles with mean diameters between 5 and 50 nm were obtained, and the best size distribution possesses a standard deviation (σ) of about 13%, that is two times smaller than the mean σ we achieved in syntheses conducted using conventional lab equipment. An important issue was the surface treatment of the inner walls of the microreactor, since adhesion of gold particles or their nuclei to these surfaces was a major drawback. However, we were able to reduce this problem via two alternative approaches. One was the silanization of the reactor, which led to hydrophobic surfaces and hence less wetting of these surfaces, resulting in an independence of particle yield from flow rate and leading to no reactor fouling. On the other hand, we worked at an elevated pH, which reduced the deposition due to a net negative charge on the particles and the reactors internal surface, leading to mutual repulsion.

Figure 3. Dependence of size distribution on flow rate (native reactor, pH ) 2.8, 1 mM HAuCl4, 20 mM ascorbic acid, 0.025% PVP).

quality compared to the ones obtained in the microreactor at the same conditions. Optimized syntheses in the microreactor at H ) 2.8 with 500 µL/min and at a 20:1 gold-to-ascorbic acid ratio yielded size distributions with σ ) 13% and σ ) 17%, respectively. These distributions are by a factor of 2 smaller than those obtained in the flask or beaker. At pH ) 9.5 the best distributions obtained in the microreactor show σ ) 15%, and they are rarely broader than σ ) 20%, which is also two times smaller than the width of the size distributions obtained with the conventional lab equipment. Comparison of the correlation between flow rate and the (normalized) UV-vis absorption at the plasmon peak maximum (Figure 10), which is a measure for the particle yield, leads to the following conclusions. In the native silicon/ glass reactor operated at basic conditions, the obtained concentration of gold particles becomes almost independent from the flow rate, as shown by the slight increase of the absorption when we worked at higher flow rates. At a total flow of 200 µL/min we observed 88% of the maximum absorption, which was detected at 4000 µL/min (the flow rate was not increased further). The reason is the opposite charge of particles and channel surfaces, which suppresses the interaction between them. Similarly, we observed only a very weak correlation between flow rate and observed absorption value when we investigated the absorption of the gold sols produced in the silanized reactor, where the effect is due to the hydrophobic surface of the reactor. Here, the particle yield shows a slight increase from 92% at 200 µL/ min to the maximum, which was detected at a flow rate of 1000 µL/min and also at 2000 µL/min. It decreased a little when we worked at 4000 µL/min, where we observed 95% of the maximum absorption. But these small deviations (e8%) could also be within the experimental variation of the concentration and age of the reactant solutions and, in our opinion, do not correspond to real effects. However, a distinct positive correlation between flow rate and particle

Figure 7. Influence of pH on the size distribution (native reactor, 1 mM HAuCl4, 20 mM ascorbic acid, 0.0025% PVP, total flow 2000 µL/min).

Figure 5. Dependence of size distribution on concentration ratio (native reactor, pH ) 2.8, 1 mM HAuCl4, varying ascorbic acid concentrations, 0.025% PVP, total flow 2000 µL/min).

A continuous flow microreactor was used for the synthesis of gold nanoparticles (5 to 50 nm) directly from a gold salt (HAuCl4) and a reducing agent (ascorbic acid). Experimental parameters were optimized to obtain narrow size distributions, which were at average two times narrower than those obtained in a conventional synthesis. Additionally, two approaches, i.e., elevation of pH during reaction and hydrophobization of internal reactor surfaces were tested to suppress reactor fouling.

diameter, which corresponds to a σ of approximately 30% of the mean diameter. Solely at a total flow of 500 µL/min the half width of the size distribution is considerably lower: 31% (corresponding to σ ) 13%) compared to all other flow rates (Figure 4), a result we cannot explain conclusively, yet. Figure 5 shows the correlation between concentration ratio (reducing agent/gold ions) and the resulting size distribution. It shows that an increasing concentration of the reducing

Figure 8. Effect of PVP concentration on the particle size distribution (native reactor, pH ) 2.8, 1 mM HAuCl4, 20 mM ascorbic acid, 0.025% PVP, total flow 2000 µL/min).

Unfortunately most standard syntheses yield particles with rather broad size distributions, and thus microreactors are suggested for these syntheses because simply scaling down the reaction volume was often sufficient to lower the polydispersity of the particle samples.24 One reason might be efficient and homogeneous mixing in microreactors, which is superior to the heterogeneous flow and mixing conditions in batch reactors.25 Microreactors provide reaction volumes that are more homogeneous with respect to concentration, temperature, and mass transport, leading to a better control of the reaction steps that govern particle size distribution, i.e., nucleation and growth.24 Consequently, the obtained particles can be more uniform, although there are difficulties accompanying the handling of heterogeneous systems in microreactors, such as adhesion and transport behavior, which often lead to reactor fouling. Nevertheless, other groups have worked on this approach as well, and inorganic salt nanocrystallites,25-29 oxide particles,30 semiconductor nanoparticles,31-36 and recently silver particles37 have been synthesized in a microsystem setup. However, although gold nanoparticles exhibit a range of interesting properties, which have led to a multitude of applications in supramolecular chemistry, molecular biology, catalysis, and nanotechnology (for a review cf. ref 14), to the best of our knowledge no results have been published yet dealing with the direct continuous synthesis of gold nanoparticles in a microsystem. In a previously study we applied a microreactor to investigate the growth of gold nanoparticles from seeds, which were conventionally syn- thesized outside the microsystem.38

