The reproducibility of the conversion in the microreactors was investigated by operating several reactors at the same flow rate of gas and liquid simultaneously and comparing their performance. Because all reactors drew liquid from the same batch of reactant, the amount and composition of the deactivating poisons in the feed were identical for all reactors. The reactors were packed with the same b

The set-up is designed to withstand a maximum pressure of 10 MPa and a reactor temperature of up to 500 8C. In Fig. 1 a schematic overview is given. The effluent of each reactor runs into a gas–liquid separator. The gas effluent of these separators are merged and vented through a vessel that is maintained at constant pressure with a bleed inflow from mass- flow controller and a combined outflow th

for the liquid and gas phase, respectively. These velocities are the same as those typically applied in the microreactor.

Catalyst testing in a multiple-parallel, gas–liquid, powder-packed bed microreactor

The use of a three-phase plug-flow microreactor with powder catalysts to obtain intrinsic kinetics is reported. Our test reaction is the hydrogenation of biphenyl over a Pt-Pd/Al2O3 catalyst. We compare reaction rates obtained in both our microreactor and a standard hydrogenation autoclave. The reactor design consists of six parallel reactor tubes with an inner diameter of 2.2 mm and a maximum cat

The results presented in Fig. 4 show that the performance of the catalyst in the autoclave can be reproduced in the fixed-bed microreactor: (i) accurately, with a deviation of 6% from intrinsic kinetic values and (ii) reproducibly, with a deviation of 3% from a

The set-up consists of 6 parallel continuous reactors. The reactors have an inner diameter of 2.2 mm and a packed-bed length of 475 mm. The heated part of the reactor consists of coincidentally 6 vertically aligned insulated brass blocks with a heating wire helically coiled around the perimeter. Each block is independently maintained at set-point temperature with a master–slave control loop. The i

where r is the dilution ratio, i.e. the volume of the diluent and catalyst combined divided by the volume of the catalyst. Xdiluted and Xundiluted are the conversion of the diluted bed and of the undiluted bed, respectively. The paper is organized as follows: after discussion of several design aspects of the reactor set-up and the experimental procedures, we report repeated performance tests that 

3.3. Effect of flow rate

Weighed amounts of catalyst powder and diluent powder were premixed and introduced at once into a funnel that feeds into a reactor tube. Each reactor was loaded in three steps: bottom inert, the catalyst–inert mixture, and finally a layer inert on top. The bed height for an undiluted bed was almost 7 mm, and for a twenty- fold dilution by volume with SiC, the bed height was about 150 mm. In most c

