The reproducibility of the conversion in the microreactors was investigated by operating several reactors at the same flow rate of gas and liquid simultaneously and comparing their performance. Because all reactors drew liquid from the same batch of reactant, the amount and composition of the deactivating poisons in the feed were identical for all reactors. The reactors were packed with the same batch of diluent and catalyst. The construction of the set- up ensured that all reactors operated at the same pressure and temperature. These observations serve to emphasize that varia- tions in performance are due to the reactor packing, not due to variations in reactants or operating conditions. We account for small experimental variations as follows. Each column is connected to two mass flow controllers, one for gas flow and one for liquid flow. We determined that random deviations from set-point of the mass flow controllers were 2% of full scale. The error in the amount of catalyst in each reactor was less than 1%. The error in temperature was 0.3 8C. Using EA = 94 kJ mol1 from

The set-up is designed to withstand a maximum pressure of 10 MPa and a reactor temperature of up to 500 8C. In Fig. 1 a schematic overview is given. The effluent of each reactor runs into a gas–liquid separator. The gas effluent of these separators are merged and vented through a vessel that is maintained at constant pressure with a bleed inflow from mass- flow controller and a combined outflow through a back-pressure controller, such that equal pressure is guaranteed in all reactors. The liquid effluent is semi-continuously removed using a six-way valve and a sample loop. Samples of this liquid flow are directed to a fraction collector and, subsequently, analyzed off-line. The two top requirements for the gas–liquid separator are high-pressure resistance and a small internal volume. With respect to the latter, it should be noted that each millilitre of dead space corresponds to up to an hour of residence time and, as a consequence, sampling delay. We have designed and built a funnel with level control that fulfils these requirements. At two different levels at the bottom end of the funnel, the phase is detected with an infrared signal and detector. Fig. 2(a) shows a schematic drawing of the gas–liquid separator. The evolution of the collected light in time during filling and emptying of the funnel is shown in Fig. 2(b).

for the liquid and gas phase, respectively. These velocities are the same as those typically applied in the microreactor.

Catalyst testing in a multiple-parallel, gas–liquid, powder-packed bed microreactor

The use of a three-phase plug-flow microreactor with powder catalysts to obtain intrinsic kinetics is reported. Our test reaction is the hydrogenation of biphenyl over a Pt-Pd/Al2O3 catalyst. We compare reaction rates obtained in both our microreactor and a standard hydrogenation autoclave. The reactor design consists of six parallel reactor tubes with an inner diameter of 2.2 mm and a maximum catalyst- bed length of 200 mm. Co-flowing two phases very slowly over the bed needs more care than running only a liquid or a gas. Our main contribution in this work is to stress the impact of hydrodynamic anomalies, most importantly stagnant zones of gas and liquid, which occurred in reactor columns where diluent and catalyst were unevenly distributed. Such packing irregularities caused huge variations in conversion levels from tube to tube. In contrast, using a proper way to load the solids evenly, we could get the same results in each reactor tube. The values of these kinetic constants were identical to the ones we obtained in the autoclave. The well-known effect that too much dilution causes loss of conversion is found to be stronger than that in gas–solid systems. We visualized flow patterns in a 2-dimensional reactor mock-up and found such stagnant zones in segregated beds. Scaling down a continuous packed-bed reactor to reliably measure catalytic kinetics for gas–liquid–solid reactions is possible under specified conditions described herein.  2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

The results presented in Fig. 4 show that the performance of the catalyst in the autoclave can be reproduced in the fixed-bed microreactor: (i) accurately, with a deviation of 6% from intrinsic kinetic values and (ii) reproducibly, with a deviation of 3% from a

The set-up consists of 6 parallel continuous reactors. The reactors have an inner diameter of 2.2 mm and a packed-bed length of 475 mm. The heated part of the reactor consists of coincidentally 6 vertically aligned insulated brass blocks with a heating wire helically coiled around the perimeter. Each block is independently maintained at set-point temperature with a master–slave control loop. The inner 3 blocks (no. 3–5 from the top) are isothermal within 0.5 8C, as was verified in each reactor tube. The catalyst-bed length in this isothermal zone is at least 200 mm. Flow rates of gas (pure hydrogen) are between 5 and 50 ml min1 (STP) and those of liquid are between 0.5 and 5 g h1.

where r is the dilution ratio, i.e. the volume of the diluent and catalyst combined divided by the volume of the catalyst. Xdiluted and Xundiluted are the conversion of the diluted bed and of the undiluted bed, respectively. The paper is organized as follows: after discussion of several design aspects of the reactor set-up and the experimental procedures, we report repeated performance tests that we compare with our experiments in a stirred autoclave, for which we can exclude transport phenomena affecting the kinetics. We analyze the reproducibility, or lack thereof, in terms of visually observed features of the flow.

3.3. Effect of flow rate

Weighed amounts of catalyst powder and diluent powder were premixed and introduced at once into a funnel that feeds into a reactor tube. Each reactor was loaded in three steps: bottom inert, the catalyst–inert mixture, and finally a layer inert on top. The bed height for an undiluted bed was almost 7 mm, and for a twenty- fold dilution by volume with SiC, the bed height was about 150 mm. In most cases the dilution with SiC was four-fold by volume, resulting in a bed length of about 35 mm. After the first filling step and during the third filling step, the reactor tubes were tapped to compact the bed. After filling, the reactor tubes were mounted leak-tight in the set-up. Details of the optimum packing procedure are given in [27]. The catalyst was reduced in situ by a continuous flow of hydrogen (30 ml min1) at 250 8C at atmo- spheric pressure, in 4 h. After reduction, the system was cooled down, pressurized and the gas flow was allowed to stabilize. Subsequently, the temperature was raised, and then the liquid flow was set. The experiments were generally performed at a pressure

