The main advantages of microreactors are rapid mixing and excellent temperature control of chemical reactions.1,2 Both processes strongly depend on the reactor dimensions. In microchannels, eﬃcient mixing results from a high local energy dissipation rate and short diﬀusion paths.3 The speed of heat removal in a microreactor not only benefits from the short length scale for heat transfer, but also from a high heat transfer coeﬃcient in laminar flow at small channel diameters. During scale-up to commercial production, the outstanding perform- ance of microreactors is often maintained by numbering up with massive parallelization. Since the scale-up by multiplication results in high equipment costs and problems such as flow maldistribution,4,5 this concept has low practical value. Therefore, the scale-up considerations described in this paper focus on the transfer to larger equipment scale, which requires good investigation of the interaction of transport and kinetic phenomena. In the case of a fast and exothermic reaction, especially the temperature control is a crucial aspect, since parametric sensitivity can cause problems in terms of reactor stability. The scale-up can be critical since an increase of the channel diameter of 1 order of magnitude can increase the characteristic times for mixing and heat transfer to a much larger extent.6 In this paper, we discuss diﬀerent aspects of the development of a continuous process for an exothermic reaction, exemplarily demonstrated with the synthesis of 3- piperidino propionic acid ethyl ester by a Michael addition. For the addition of secondary amines to α,β-unsaturated carbonyl compounds and nitriles, Löwe and Hessel7 showed a significantly higher productivity in microstructured flow

Thus, fluid flow encloses the entire measurement tip. Three diﬀerent reactor modules, manufactured from silicon carbide, were used. A mixer module, including preheating channels, T- mixer, and a reaction channel (reaction volume, 2.9 mL), was combined with two residence time modules of 16.8 and 33.6 mL. The reaction channel with a square cross section (2.0 mm × 2.0 mm) is arranged in recurring 90° redirections (Figure 2b). Since a flow rate of 50 mL/min would require an extremely high flow rate of quench solution, the quenching procedure had to be modified in order to use only part of the product stream for sampling and analysis. Therefore, a split-up of the product stream was realized by using a T-junction and a control valve to adjust the flow ratio. A Coriolis flow meter (mass flow meter M53, Bronkhorst High-Tech BV, The Netherlands) was used

ABSTRACT: Microreactors are an eﬃcient tool for process development and intensification. However, the scale-up from lab studies to small-scale commercial production is challenging, since a change in the channel dimensions requires good knowledge of heat and mass transfer phenomena. In this work, complete process development for an exothermic Michael addition is presented. In a systematic scale-up approach, kinetic studies and experimental characterization of the employed reactors provide key parameters for detailed reactor modelling. The residence time distribution, reactant mixing, and removal of reaction heat are taken into account. It is exemplarily shown how preliminary experiments can be the basis for the prediction of scale-up eﬀects and the development of a continuous production process. Plug flow behavior and short mixing times could be confirmed for all investigated flow reactors. Furthermore, interactions of reaction kinetics and the formation of hot spots in the reactor channel were investigated. For the examined reaction, the simulations predicted the product yield under production conditions in good accuracy. ■INTRODUCTION

In this paper, a general approach for process development is proposed: First, kinetic data of the reaction are obtained by a series of experiments using a microreactor with small internal volume of a few microliters. Analysis of reactor characteristics (Reactor Characteristics Section) allows for confirmation of the assumption of an ideal, nearly isothermal plug flow reactor behavior. On this basis, experimental data can be used for fitting the results to a kinetic model. In a subsequent step, the scale-up from the microscaled reactor to a production reactor has to be considered. Increasing the channel diameter and changing flow rates strongly influences the mixing performance, residence time distribution, and the eﬃciency in heat transfer. Reliable parameters for the calculation of these eﬀects can be obtained by experimental characterization of the production

Figure 9. Simulation of conversion and temperature in the reaction channel of the ESK flow reactor, compared with the microreactor MR2.

reactors compared to the traditional batch process. Due to superior heat removal in microreactors, the exothermic Michael additions could be carried out without any solvent. In consequence, the reaction time was decreased from 25 h in semibatch operations to only a few minutes in microreactors. This example clearly demonstrates the use of microreactors enabling safe operation of fast exothermic solvent-free reactions. The decrease in reaction time due to the enhanced heat removal as well as the increasing interest in solvent-free reactions as subject of green synthesis could be important drivers to consider the application of a flow reactor in a small- scale production process.8

A derivation of this correlation can be found in the Supporting Information. ■SCALE-UP OF REACTOR CONCEPT Capillary reactors with specific length, inner diameter, and curvature are very flexible and easy to implement in small-scale microreactor setups for kinetic experiments. In order to maintain flexibility in production scale reactors, modular plate reactors provide a suitable reactor concept. Process and utility channels in the reactor modules of the ESK production reactor can be combined to achieve a reactor with the required inner volume. The considered scale-up not only implies a transfer of channel dimensions, but also a change of flow guidance, channel cross-section, and mixing principle. Since a diﬀerent reactor behavior can be expected, mass and heat transfer processes have to be characterized experimentally. A set of preliminary experiments for characterization is proposed, and the results are discussed in the following. Residence Time Distribution. As discussed above, in strictly laminar flow, back-mixing mainly depends on the mean residence time in relation to the characteristic time for molecular diﬀusion. Considering the scale-up to larger channel dimensions in the ESK reactor, the time for molecular diﬀusion would increase quadratically with the channel width. If radial mass transport is only based on molecular diﬀusion, this would result in a broad residence time distribution with an equivalent decrease in the Bo number. However, the channel design of the reactor can induce secondary flow structures which significantly support the radial mass transport. In the ESK reactor, repeated alternating 90°-redirections enhance the homogenization of the radial concentration profile in the laminar flow. The resulting residence time behavior was determined experimentally by stimulus-response experiments. Figure 7 shows the residence time function that is obtained from the response signal of an automatically induced step function of the tracer concentration. A numerical fit of the dispersed plug flow model was performed, with Bo as the only fitting parameter. The best fit for the dispersion model was obtained with a Bo number of 1130. This result indicates

channel diameter (mm) 0.25 0.75 length (m) 0.50 0.50 inner volume (mL) 0.025 0.221 mean residence time (s) flow rate (mL/min) 0.29 0.22 flow velocity (m/s) 0.10 0.008 Re number 21.6 5.4 Dn number 2.70 1.17 Bo number (Taylor−Aris) Bo number (Janssen)

Table 1. Channel dimensions of the microreactors used for the kinetic study and dimensionless parameters, calculated for selected mean residence times

Table 2. Characteristic parameters for heat transfer in the investigated microreactors

