In recent years, flow chemistry technique has revolutionized the research and application of fluoroalkylation. This advancement is largely attributed to the use of microreactor, which has small channel diameter and high specific surface area. These characteristics enable precise control of reaction condition, thereby greatly improving mass and heat transfer performance. Meanwhile, microreactors could reduce reagent consumption, improve product quality and reaction efficiency and ensure the safety of chemical reactions (Mu et al., 2024; Russo et al., 2019; Schwolow et al., 2016). Spennacchio et al. (Spennacchio et al.,

Keywords: Difluoroalkylation Microreactor Continuous flow Reaction kinetics

Furthermore, a conventional batch reaction was utilized to perform comparative experiment to assess the performance of the microreactor used. Each substance with a concentration corresponding to the optimal reaction conditions of the microreactor (nEBFA: nST = 1.5, nCuI: nST = 0.06, nPMDETA: nST = 1.5) was respectively added to the reaction tube and dissolved in DMSO, with total amount of 2 mL. The reaction mixture was then subjected to a constant temperature of 85 ◦C and stirred continuously for 12 h, without the use of an inert gas atmosphere. The yield of EDPB was determined by GC.

Difluoroalkylation of styrene in the continuous-flow microreactor: Process performance and Reaction kinetics

The microreaction system setup is shown in Fig. 1, it consists of three main units: feed unit, reaction unit and quenching unit. The two re­ actants ST and EBFA were fed separately. Given that EBFA could un­ dergo transformation in alkaline conditions (Wang et al., 2017), ST, catalyst CuI and the alkaline ligand PMDETA were dissolved in DMSO and stirred by a magnetic stirring device (WM-1, INNOTEG) at room temperature to obtain solution A. EBFA was dissolved in DMSO and stirred by a magnetic stirring device (WM-1, INNOTEG) at room tem­ perature to obtain solution B. Both solutions A and B were delivered by the syringe pumps (PHD 4400, Harvard Apparatus) under the same flow rates and preheated to reaction temperature in the 2.5 m capillary coil (PTFE, ϕ 1.587 × 1 mm). Later, the two reactive solutions were mixed in a T-type micromixer (PTFE) and then flowed into a capillary coil (PTFE, ϕ 1.587 × 1 mm) for reaction. The reaction time was controlled by using reaction coils of varying lengths. The preheating coil, the mixer and the reaction coil were immersed in an oil bath to guarantee as constant re­ action temperature as possible. Under all experimental conditions, the monitoring thermocouple thermometer (YET-640, Kaipusen) showed that the inlet temperatures were the same as that of the oil bath, and the temperature changes of the outlets of the preheating loop, the

The volume flow rate of the reaction tube is calculated by Eq. (2):

3.2.1. Effect of flow rate on mixing performance

Although the difluoroalkylation reaction of styrene is homogeneous, it is less affected by interphase mass transfer resistance, inadequate mixing could still affect the reaction rate, thus effective and sufficient mixing is essential to study the intrinsic kinetics (Song et al., 2022). Due to the short molecular diffusion path in the microreactor, the fluid flow is laminar, where fluid mixing depends primarily on the channel configuration and flow velocity (Xu et al., 2023). In order to achieve the ideal mixing effect toward fully understanding of reaction kinetics and developing a more accurate reaction model, the influences of different flow velocities on the conversion of ST under the same residence time were studied, as shown in Fig. 2. It could be found that at low flow rates, the styrene conversion rate rises almost linearly with increasing flow velocity, indicating that the reaction kinetics are controlled by mass transfer. However, when the flow rate exceeds 0.25 mL/min, the styrene conversion rate would not increase further and remains nearly un­ changed, implying that the reaction mixture has been sufficiently mixed. The reaction flow rate should be large enough to ensure an ideal mixture of tests under all experimental conditions. Consequently, the flow ve­ locity of the reaction mixture was maintained at 0.3 mL/min for the subsequent experiments.

To obtain accurate kinetic results, the conversion rates of ST were measured at various temperatures and residence times in the micro­ reactor, as shown in Fig. 7. By substituting the conversion data into Eq. (16), the relationship between f(x) and τ at different temperatures could be obtained, as shown in Fig. 8(a). The slope (k) of the curve is the value of the reaction rate constant k at different reaction temperatures, and the value of k is summarized in Table 3. Fig. 8(b) shows the relationship curve between lnk and 1/RT.

As shown in Fig. 11(a), the predicted conversion rate is in good agreement with the experimental data (δ ≤2.0 %), indicating the reli­ ability of the kinetic model and the accuracy of the extensive experi­ mental data obtained from the microreactor. As is well known, the reaction kinetic model is critically important for tailoring a desirable reactor, as it could predict the concentration change of ST at different residence times. It could be clearly found from Fig. 11(b) that the model prediction values match experimental data well, indicating the excellent predicting performance of the present model.

