part of the microreactor. A symmetric concentration profile is evident along reactor height because the reaction is taking place on the catalyst on both sides of the microchannel. In the precatalytic region (-L′ e z e 0), a slow decrease in reactant concentration is already observed, resulting from the previously discussed back- mixing in the reactor. The use of Pd/Fe catalyst in the microreactor yielded phenol as the only product of p-chlorophenol dechlori- nation. The ambient-temperature experiments were performed at flow rates from 0.09 to 0.63 mL/min, resulting in Reynolds numbers between 0.12 and 0.77, based on the average axial velocity vav, equilibrium length de, fluid density F, and viscosity µ. This is in agreement with the laminar flow condition applied in the development of the mathematical model. As seen in Figure 7, the model accurately predicts the conversion of p-chlorophenol at different flow rates and yields the corresponding overall rate constant k293 K / ) 1.04 × 10-7 m/s. Considering the catalyst dimensions, calcula- tion of the rate constant gives k293 K ) 1.97 × 10-5 m3/ kgcat‚s, which is 3 orders of magnitude lower than the

Figure 4. Schematic presentation of the microreactor system, in modeling separated into two parts to consider back-mixing in front of the catalytic zone (-L′ e z e 0). Microreactor dimensions: L ) 70 mm, W ) 27 mm, and B ) 0.1 mm.

for the CSTR. Both contain the characteristic dimen- sionless group k*L/vavB as an independent parameter for reactor efficiency. Figure 5 compares the predictions for the ideal PFR and CSTR models with our model simulations for different Peclet numbers (0.01 e Pe e 10) and shows the results obtained in the experiments. Generally, an increase in the flow rate results in an increase in Pe, and consequently, our model for the microreactor approaches that for a PFR. At Pe ) 10, the model gives close-to-ideal PFR performance, and a further increase in Peclet number results in the com- plete overlapping of the model simulations with the PFR curve, so the results are not presented. As the experi- mental Pe values (based on average axial velocity vav, reactor half-height B, and the molecular diffusivity DAB) were between 17.5 and 223.5 for the whole set of experiments, the results of the model simulations completely match those of the PFR. Similar findings were recently reported by Deshmukh et.al.,25 who compared a 2D computational fluid dynamic simulation of a complex structured post microreactor with various reactor models. For a wide range of temperatures and flow rates, nearly PFR behavior was observed in the model simulations of a microstructured reactor used for hydrogen production from ammonia. Only in the case of very low velocities, expressed as Pe values below 1, does the microreactor shift away from PFR behavior, and at very low values of k*L/vavB, it performs even worse than a CSTR (Figure 5). This phenomenon might be explained by pronounced back- mixing present at slower flows, not taken into account in the PFR model. In the case of very slow reaction kinetics, this results in lower conversions as compared to those obtained at higher flow rates, where the back- mixing from longitudinal diffusion is diminished. Figure 6 presents results of a 2D model simulation of the dimensionless concentration profile in the first

Dechlorination of p-chlorophenol was investigated in a single-pass, continuous-flow microreactor system made of two parallel palladized iron plates. The plates formed a microscale channel 27 mm wide, 70 mm long, and 0.2 mm high. The bimetallic catalyst was prepared by electroless deposition of Pd on the reactor plate surfaces. Experiments were performed under steady-state conditions at different temperatures between 293 and 333 K and at a variety of flow conditions in the range from 1.5 × 10-9 to 1 × 10-8 m3/s. A two-dimensional mathematical model, containing convection, diffusion, and pseudo-first-order catalytic reaction terms, was developed to analyze the experimental data and to forecast reactor performance. Depending on the prevailing kinetic and convection/diffusion phenomena, the developed model can be reduced to the ideal plug-flow model or can depict reactor performance that is close to or even worse than the performance of an ideal mixed-flow reactor. Under operating conditions typical to this study, the model and the experimental data indicate plug-flow behavior of the microreactor. Analysis of the obtained chemical kinetic rate constants provides an estimate of the activation energy for this reaction (Ea ) 48.43 ( 6.13 kJ/mol), which remains unchanged despite observed deactivation of the catalyst. The deactivation of the catalyst is caused by reversible catalyst passivity, and it is modeled by second-order kinetics. Analysis of the experimental data shows that the observed deactivation influences only the preexponential factor in the Arrhenius law for the investigated reaction.

amples, reviewed by Ja¨hnisch et al.,14 indicate a 10% to severalfold increase of reaction yield when compared to conventional reactor processes. Recently, the first study of an enzymatic reaction in two-phase flow in a microfluidic device was reported by Maruyama et al.,22 where degradation of p-chlorophenol was realized by solubilized laccase. In our study, the use of a microreactor for the degradation of p-chlorophenol on bimetallic Pd/Fe cata- lyst is presented, which has a potential use in on-site pollutant remediation. The goal of the study is to obtain the dechlorination of p-chlorophenol in a continuous- flow microreactor made of two iron plates palladized by electroless deposition of Pd on the reactor plate surfaces. A mathematical model is developed to describe and predict reactor performance at steady-state conditions. Microreactor simulations are compared with ideal plug- flow reactor (PFR) and continuous stirred-tank reactor (CSTR) models for a broad range of operating conditions. Furthermore, the deactivation of catalyst that resulted in unsteady-state operation is described by a dynamic model. Finally, an estimate of the activation energy for this reaction is obtained.

For the numerical solution of the model equations, a finite-difference method was used. Regarding a wide range of theoretical operating conditions, varying nodal densities of meshes were applied. To achieve stability of the system at high Peclet number, Pe, the micro- reactor was divided into several parts along the reactor length, where each outlet profile served as the input for the next section. On the contrary, at Pe values below 0.1, where a lower nodal density is sufficiently accurate, the whole microreactor was treated as a unit. Using the implicit approach, matrices up to 105 × 105 were solved using the Mathematica 5.0 computational tool. To describe the deactivation process observed in experimental studies, the activity term a was added to the reaction rate equation, which accounts for the passivation effects, as presented in Figure 2

For dechlorination in a microreactor with laminar fluid flow, a two-dimensional (2D) model is developed. Both longitudinal and transverse diffusion and convec- tion in the longitudinal direction are considered, with an irreversible, pseudo-first-order reaction at the cata- lyst surfaces on both sides of the flow channel. For an accurate description of the effects of back-mixing at the inlet of the catalytic area (z ) 0), the precatalytic zone is considered, as shown in Figure 4. In this zone, which represents a defined portion of the system (L′ is ap- proximately 0.1L), the boundary conditions without chemical reaction are taken into account. For steady-state conditions in the single-pass mi- croreactor system before catalyst deactivation, the dimensionless partial differential equation is

M. Enzymatic degradation of p-chlorophenol in a two-phase flow microchannel system. Lab-on-a-Chip 2003, 3, 308. (23) Wilke, C. R.; Chang, P. C. Correlation of Diffusion Coef- ficients in Dilute Solutions. AIChE J. 1955, 1, 164. (24) Levenspiel, O. Chemical Reaction Engineering, 3rd ed.; John Wiley & Sons: New York, 1999. (25) Deshmukh, S. R.; Mhadeshwar, A. B.; Vlachos, D. G. Microreactor modeling for hydrogen production from ammonia decomposition on ruthenium. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2004, 43, 2986.

Figure 6. Dimensionless concentration profile at the beginning of the microreactor, including the precatalytic region (-L′ e z e 0) and the first part of catalytic zone (0 e z e L1), which accounts for 1/140 of the length of the catalyst.

calculation of overall reaction rate constants. Compari- son of the model simulations with ideal reactor predic- tions effectively shows PFR behavior at the operating conditions applied in the experiments. The experimental results indicate moderate efficiency of the catalytic reaction in a microreactor system at room temperature. Increased temperatures resulted in higher conversions and overall reaction rate constants, although they are up to 3 orders of magnitude lower than those reported for granular and nanoscale Pd/Fe catalyst. Moreover, the deactivation of the catalyst was observed after a few hours of steady-state continuous processing and was described as a second-order process. Passivation of the catalyst resulted in a lower Arrhenius preexponential factor for the dechlorination process compared to the initial rates. The application of recent advances in microfabrication techniques for catalytic reactors would probably ensure a more stable catalyst and therefore diminish undesirable deactivation.

