2.2.2. The scale-up of the continuous microflow process The kilogram-scale microreactor system was assembled with 40 T-micromixer chips (polymethyl methacrylate, PMMA) and a delay loop (Fig. 2c). The outline size of the T-micromixer was 90.0  50.0  4.0 mm (length  width  height). And the microchannel size of T-micromixer was 1.2  1.0 mm (length  width). The T-micromixer was made by a carving

As shown in Fig. 3, the yield remained unchanged and even increased along with increasing of the total flow rate. The length of the tubular microreactor assembled after the T-micromixer increases when the total flow rate increases in order to keep the residence time constant. Though, the diffusion coefficient is a material parameter and is not affected by the total flow rate, the Reynolds number w

Fig. 5 shows the results of the diazotization reaction at the dif- ferent reaction temperature (T1). The diazotization reaction could be conducted at room temperature (25 C) under microflow condi- tions, and 2,4,5-trifluorobromobenzene was produced in 90.2% yield. As can be seen from Fig. 5, the yield decreased a little along with the increase in reaction temperature of the diazotization step. Th

2.2.1. The continuous microflow process The continuous flow microreactor system used for synthesis of 2,4,5-trifluorobromobenzene is shown in Fig. 1. It was assembled with a T-micromixer (i.d. 1.2 mm, 316L, Xiongchuan, China) and microchannel reactor (PTFE tube, i.d. 2.0 mm) as the residence time delay loop. The solutions of 2,4,5-trifluoroaniline (1.0 M in HBr, 6.8 mL/min) and NaNO2 (6.0 M in H2O

interconnected at corresponding position for passing the raw material and product, respectively. The each T-micromixer chip was pasted to form the scale-up T-micromixer setup as the core reaction components one by one using the agglomerant, which was composed of ethyl alcohol and 1,2-dichloroethane. When the T-micromixer was added a chip, the T-micromixer was compressed at 1.0 MPa and 100 C for 5

In summary, a reliable and facile continuous microflow process for the synthesis of 2,4,5-trifluorobromobenzene from 2,4,5- trifluoroaniline via Gatternann reaction has been developed. The microflow system is able to promote efficient massand heat- transfer and cut greatly down the reaction time. The precise con- trol of the reaction variables using microreactor significantly improves the yield an

Summary: The paragraph discusses the development of a continuous-flow microreactor system for the Gattermann reaction synthesis of 2,4,5-trifluorobromobenzene from 2,4,5-trifluoroaniline with HBr and NaNO2. The reactor type is T-micromixer based microchannel reactors. Key reactants are 2,4,5-trifluoroaniline, HBr, and NaNO2; solvent/catalyst details are not mentioned. Products include the desired product (2,4,5-trifluorobromobenzene) along with undesired byproducts due to uncontrolled thermal decomposition in batch reactors. Reactor details: T-micromixer based microchannel reactors. Critical conditions: flow rates and residence times are not mentioned; temperature and pressure are controlled for the exothermic diazotization reaction using continuous-flow microreactors. Outcomes: The use of continuous-flow microreactors facilitates the Gattermann reaction, offering advantages such as efficient heat and mass transfer, high safety, good reproducibility, and easy scale-up compared to traditional batch reactors.

 Provides an easily assembled micro- and batch reactor tandem model for liquid/liquid and liquid/solid reactions.

