2.2.2. The scale-up of the continuous microflow process The kilogram-scale microreactor system was assembled with 40 T-micromixer chips (polymethyl methacrylate, PMMA) and a delay loop (Fig. 2c). The outline size of the T-micromixer was 90.0  50.0  4.0 mm (length  width  height). And the microchannel size of T-micromixer was 1.2  1.0 mm (length  width). The T-micromixer was made by a carving machine (ROLAND, MDX-40A). The inlet and outlet points were

2.2. Microflow setup and experimental procedure

3.6. The scale-up of the continuous microflow process

As shown in Fig. 3, the yield remained unchanged and even increased along with increasing of the total flow rate. The length of the tubular microreactor assembled after the T-micromixer increases when the total flow rate increases in order to keep the residence time constant. Though, the diffusion coefficient is a material parameter and is not affected by the total flow rate, the Reynolds number will increase with the increasing of the total flow rate. As the Reynolds number increases, the phenomena appeared in the microchannel becomes more and more complex, and the number of the vortex is also increased. It is advantageous to the mixing of 2,4,5-trifluoroaniline with NaNO2. Hence, the yield increases with the increase in the total flow rate. The increase in flow rate and decrease in residence time are beneficial for the improvement of space-time yield and the savings of cost. However, further increase of the total flow rate would lead to an increase of pressure in the microchannel, which may cause the instability of the working flow system and might be potentially risky especially for a scale-up operation.

Fig. 5 shows the results of the diazotization reaction at the dif- ferent reaction temperature (T1). The diazotization reaction could be conducted at room temperature (25 C) under microflow condi- tions, and 2,4,5-trifluorobromobenzene was produced in 90.2% yield. As can be seen from Fig. 5, the yield decreased a little along with the increase in reaction temperature of the diazotization step. The yields decreased from 93.3% to 90.2% when the reaction tem- perature increased from 0 C to 25 C. However, it should be noted that the formation of gas bubbles in microchannel was observed when the diazotization reaction was performed at 25 C, probably due to slight decomposition of the diazonium 2,4,5- trifluorobenzene or HNO2. The formation of gas bubbles in microreactor should be avoided as it may result in instability of the flow, especially for scale-up. The results indicated that, although the diazotization reaction indeed required to be per- formed at low temperature (60 C), the microflow system could be performed at room temperature. Meanwhile, due to efficient heatand mass-transfer, the black tar is not formed in the flow process. Thus, the micro-flow reaction is better separated from the batch process.

2.2.1. The continuous microflow process The continuous flow microreactor system used for synthesis of 2,4,5-trifluorobromobenzene is shown in Fig. 1. It was assembled with a T-micromixer (i.d. 1.2 mm, 316L, Xiongchuan, China) and microchannel reactor (PTFE tube, i.d. 2.0 mm) as the residence time delay loop. The solutions of 2,4,5-trifluoroaniline (1.0 M in HBr, 6.8 mL/min) and NaNO2 (6.0 M in H2O, 1.2 mL/min) were loaded using glass syringe, and were injected into the T- micromixer by two syringe pumps, respectively. The mixed solu- tion was passed through the PTFE tube which was immersed in a 10 C low temperature ethanol bath, and the effluent was directly collected to a flask containing Cu powder (5.0 g) and 47 wt% aque- ous HBr (25 mL) at 70 C. The mixture of Cu powder and aqueous HBr was stirred for 30 min at 70 C prior to use. After collection of the effluent for about 15 min (ca. 100 mmol in term of product), the mixture was allowed to stir for another 30 min at 70 C. The crude 2,4,5-trifluorobromobenzene was obtained by steam distilla- tion. The pure product was obtained by further distillation under a reduced pressure.

interconnected at corresponding position for passing the raw material and product, respectively. The each T-micromixer chip was pasted to form the scale-up T-micromixer setup as the core reaction components one by one using the agglomerant, which was composed of ethyl alcohol and 1,2-dichloroethane. When the T-micromixer was added a chip, the T-micromixer was compressed at 1.0 MPa and 100 C for 5–15 min. And finally, the T-micromixer was consisted of 40 T-micromixer as shown in Fig. 2c. Four PTFE tubes (i.d. 2.0 mm, each length: 6.25 m, volume ca. 78.5 mL) and four two-paralled PMMA plate units (the distance of two- paralled plate was 1.2 mm and the size of the each plate was 160  100 mm (length  width), volume ca. 76.8 mL) were used as the delay loop, which were connected to the outlet of the T- micromixer. The solutions of 2,4,5-trifluoroaniline (1.0 M in HBr, 254 mL/min) and NaNO2 (6.0 M in H2O, 46 mL/min) were intro- duced into the system by peristaltic pumps, respectively. The reac- tion temperature of the system was kept at 10 C by a low temperature bath. The residence time was 30 s. The effluent was directly collected in a container filled with Cu powder (0.5 kg) and HBr (3.65 kg, 47 wt%) at 70 C. The mixture of Cu powder and HBr solution was stirred for 30 min at 70 C prior to use. The collecting time was 40 min, and the obtained mixture was stirred for another 60 min at 70 C. The crude 2,4,5- trifluorobromobenzene was obtained by steam distillation. The pure product was obtained by distillation under a reduced pressure.

In summary, a reliable and facile continuous microflow process for the synthesis of 2,4,5-trifluorobromobenzene from 2,4,5- trifluoroaniline via Gatternann reaction has been developed. The microflow system is able to promote efficient massand heat- transfer and cut greatly down the reaction time. The precise con- trol of the reaction variables using microreactor significantly improves the yield and selectivity over the corresponding batch procedures. Furthermore, the scale-up equipment has also been demonstrated to successfully conduct a kilogram-scale synthesis of 2,4,5-trifluorobromobenzene. This flow process not only offers a simple and fast flow-synthesis of 2,4,5-trifluorobromobenzene for kilogram-scale in high yield and high selectivity, but also pro- vides an important model for kilogram-scale chemical synthesis involving tandem liquid/liquid reaction in microreactors and liq- uid/solid reaction in batch reactor.

and bromodediazoniation steps (Scheme 1) [12]. A problematic issue lying in this protocol is that the diazotization reaction is strongly exothermal, furthermore the diazonium salts are highly reactive and thermally unstable [13]. Thus, the diazotization reac- tion is usually performed under vigorous stirring and with special caution to control the reaction temperature in a batch reactor. It will lead to an uncontrollable thermal decomposition of the inter- mediates and the formation of undesired byproducts if the condi- tions are not precisely controlled especially for a large-scale synthesis (Scheme 1) [14,15]. Therefore, the development of a con- trollable process to deliver diazonium salts via diazotization reac- tion is crucial and highly desired for the synthesis of aromatic bromides. Recently, the continuous-flow microreactors used in chemical synthesis have attracted great interests in both academia and industry [16–23]. The continuous-flow microreactors offer many advantages over the traditional batch reactor such as efficient heatand mass-transfer, high safety, good reproducibility, and easy scale-up [24–30]. Particularly, highly exothermic reactions and those involved instable intermediates can be smoothly performed. The continuous-flow microreactors are favored to perform the diazotization reaction. For example, the synthesis of aromatic fluorides via diazotization reaction has been reported recently using the continuous-flow microreactor [15,31]. To the best of our knowledge, the Gattermann reaction for a microflow synthesis of 2,4,5-trifluorobromobenzene has not been disclosed thus far. In this paper, we report a continuous microflow protocol for the synthesis of 2,4,5-trifluorobromobenzene via Gattermann reaction in microreactors. The microflow system is assembled by a simple T-micromixer, microchannel reactors and several pumps. The use of this system facilitated the diazotization reaction of 2,4,5-trifluoroaniline with HBr and NaNO2 to produce the thermally unstable 2,4,5-trifluorophenyl diazonium salts in seconds, which were reacted with HBr at the catalysis of copper powder to produce 2,4,5-trifluorobromobenzene. We investigated the effects of mole ratio of 2,4,5-trifluoroaniline and HBr, flow rate, residence time, temperature and the amount of copper catalyst on the product yield. Subsequently, a scale-up microreactor containing T-micromixers chips was designed and used to carry out the kilogram-scale manufacture of 2,4,5- trifluorobromobenzene.

 Provides an easily assembled micro- and batch reactor tandem model for liquid/liquid and liquid/solid reactions.

