For the polymerization process, the transport of aniline from the organic phase to the aqueous phase needed to approach and then cross the organic-aqueous interface, which was strongly dependent on the volumetric flow rate ratio of the aqueous phase to the organic phase (q). To investigate the eﬀect of the volumetric flow rate ratio on the mass transfer and the polymerization process, the total volumetric flow rate (Qtotal) was fixed at 0.5 ml/min in the capillary microreactor with the residence time of 95 s at 35 °C. Fig. 11 exhibits the photos of slug flow captured at the front part of the capillary microreactor with the var- iation of q. The dispersed phase slug length (Ls) increased with the in- crease of q. Typically, the length of the dispersed phase slug in a mi- crochannel is dependent on the volumetric flow rate ratio and physical properties of the two immiscible liquid phases. A modified capillary number (Ca*) can be introduced to reflect the eﬀects of the viscosity and the interfacial tension between the two immiscible liquid phases in the generation of the dispersed phase slug: [71]

Reynolds number (Re) is an important dimensionless parameter for predicting flow mechanics/patterns under diﬀerent conditions [28,32]. To evaluate variations of the mass transfer and the polymerization process with diﬀerent Reynolds numbers, the total volumetric flow rate was changed while maintaining the volumetric flow rate ratio of the aqueous phase to the organic phase and the residence time constant (q = Qaq: Qorg = 2, and t = 95 s) under 35 °C. This was realized by ap- plying capillary microreactors with various lengths. The mean Reynolds number of the organic and aqueous phases (ReM) was calculated based on the pseudo-homogeneous model: [28]

ReM the mean Reynolds number of the organic and aqueous phases, 1 T the polymerization temperature, °C t residence time, s uM the superficial velocity of the liquid phase, m/s x the conversion of aniline, 1

Ca* the modified capillary number, 1 CAN the concentration of aniline in the organic phase, mol/L Coxi the concentration of oxidant in the organic phase, mol/L Cp the concentration of PANI in the aqueous phase, mol/L CHCl,0 the initial concentration of hydrochloric acid in the aqu- eous phase, mol/L Corg,0 the concentration of aniline in the organic phase at the microreactor inlet, mol/L Corg,1 the concentration of aniline in the organic phase at the microreactor outlet, mol/L di the inner diameter of the capillary microreactor, mm E the mass transfer enhancement factor, 1 DAN the diﬀusivity of aniline, cm2/s Ha Hatta number, 1 K overall mean mass transfer coeﬃcient, m/s Ka overall volumetric mean mass transfer coeﬃcient, 1/s k the reaction constant, L/(mol·s) Lf the liquid film length, m Ls the dispersed phase slug length, m Q the volumetric flow rate of the liquid phase, ml/min q the volumetric flow rate ratio of the aqueous phase to the organic phase, 1 Re Reynolds number, 1

The reaction rate is usually strongly dependent on the temperature that should be well controlled for highly exothermic polymerization processes. The eﬀect of the temperature on the PANI synthesis in mi- croreactors was investigated with the residence time of 95 s at constant volumetric flow rates of the aqueous phase and the organic phase. As shown in Fig. 3, the increase of the polymerization temperature sig- nificantly improved the yield of PANI. For example, the PANI yield was increased from 2.9% to 82.1% with the polymerization temperature increasing from 15 °C to 40 °C. It demonstrated that the increase of the

and chemical industry has gained increasing attention [1–7]. Micro- reactors have numerous advantages, such as larger specific surface area, higher mixing eﬃciency, faster heat and mass transfer rates, enhanced

where di is the inner diameter of the capillary microreactor, uM is the superficial velocity, μM is the mean viscosity of the two immiscible li- quid phases.

The continuous synthesis of polyaniline was realized in capillary microreactors within liquid-liquid slug flow through the chemical oxi- dative polymerization method. The eﬀects of various factors on the polymerization process in microreactors were investigated, and the hydrodynamics and the mass transfer associated with the polymeriza- tion were characterized. The high-speed CCD camera facilitated the direct observation of the mass transfer and polymerization processes in capillary microreactors. Higher reaction temperature was beneficial for intensifying the mass transfer and accelerating the polymerization process. The yield of PANI in the capillary microreactor could reach 82.1% at the residence time of 95 s and the reaction temperature of 40 °C. The initial HCl concentration aﬀected the protonation rate of PANI and thus the mass transfer during the polymerization. Higher HCl concentration was found to be beneficial for reducing the production of oligomers and obtaining higher PANI yield. The mass transfer in the polymerization was enhanced with the increase of Reynolds number. However, the slug coalescence tended to become serious with the fur- ther increase of Reynolds number, which was unfavorable for the mass transfer and the polymerization. A correlation was developed for pre- dicting the dispersed phase slug size in the microreactor with a relative deviation of ± 10%. The increase in the volumetric ratio of the aqueous phase to the organic phase provided larger specific interfacial area for the mass transfer and resulted in higher PANI yield. Furthermore, the Hatta numbers with respect to both the initiation and propagation stages increased with the increase of the aniline con- version during the polymerization, indicating that the mass transfer limitation became higher as the polymerization proceeded. The eﬀect of the mass transfer limitation on the polymerization mainly existed in the initiation stage. The values of Hai and Hap were found to be lower than 0.3 before the aniline conversion reached 85%. It illustrated that the mass transfer limitation was trivial and the polymerization process took place in the bulk of the aqueous phase when the aniline conversion was lower than 85%. However, with the aniline conversion further in- creasing, the mass transfer limitation became obvious and the inter- facial reactions could not be neglected. Compared with batch reactors, microreactors provide much higher mass transfer rate to reach more uniform reaction conditions for the aniline polymerization process, i.e., the interfacial polymerization in batch reactors could be easily trans- formed to the polymerization process occurring in the bulk phase when applying microreactors. The calculation of the mass transfer enhance- ment factor indicated that the polymerization could enhance the mass transfer process significantly.

The hydrodynamics and mass transfer performance in the chemical oxidative polymerization of aniline in ca- pillary microreactors within the liquid-liquid slug flow regime were investigated. Higher reaction temperature, higher HCl concentration and larger volumetric flow rate ratio of the aqueous phase to the organic phase im- proved the mass transfer performance and thus led to higher yield of polyaniline. Internal recirculation in the dispersed phase slugs was captured by high-speed camera, which was beneficial for the mass transfer en- hancement in the polymerization process. The polyaniline yield reached 82.1% in the microreactor at the re- sidence time of 95 s and the temperature of 40 °C. The slug coalescence became significant with increasing Reynolds number, thus reducing the mass transfer rate. Moreover, both Hatta number and mass transfer en- hancement factor were evaluated to further characterize the mass transfer mechanism and reflect the compe- tition between the mass transfer and the reaction during the polymerization.

3.4. Eﬀect of the volumetric flow rate ratio of aqueous phase to organic phase on the polymerization

where Vc is the volume of the capillary microreactor, Corg,0 and Corg,1 are the concentrations of aniline in the organic phase at the micro- reactor inlet and outlet, respectively. Corg,0 can be considered as the initial concentration of aniline in the organic phase. Corg,1 can be ex- pressed as a function of the monomer conversion:

where (Ka)phy and (Ka)phy are the overall physical volumetric mass transfer coeﬃcient and the overall chemical volumetric mass transfer coeﬃcient, respectively. Assuming that the flow pattern in the capillary microreactor with the polymerization was the same as that without the polymerization, Eq. (20) can be transformed as follows:

process safety and more precise control over process parameters, etc., in comparison with conventional batch reactors [8–12]. With these ad- vantages, microreactors have been widely applied in homogeneous and heterogeneous polymerization processes [13–16]. In particular, poly- mers synthesized by radical polymerization, photopolymerization and copolymerization with the use of microreactor technology, have con- trollable molecular weight/structures and narrow polydispersity index of molecular weight distribution (PDI) [17]. Moreover, the poly- merization in liquid-liquid heterogeneous processes conducted in mi- croreactors has been proven to be a robust strategy to prepare a variety of polymeric nanoparticles [18], vesicles [19] and hydrogels [20]. Due to diﬀerent wettability of the channel wall for two immiscible liquid phases (i.e., organic phase and aqueous phase), the polymerization can be limited inside the dispersed phase slugs and there are liquid films between the dispersed phase slugs and the inner wall of the micro- reactor, which prevents the polymer particles fouling on the wall and avoids the channel clogging. Mello et al. realized the preparation of conductive poly(3-hex- ylthiophene) with PDI of 1.5–1.8 and high regioregularity (> 98%) in a droplet-based microfluidic reactor with the production rate of 57 g/day and excellent product quality [21]. In comparison with other literature, the molecular weight distribution of the polymers obtained in the mi- croreactor was in a more reasonable range [22–25]. Chemtob et al. synthesized poly(methacrylate) nanoparticles (< 200 nm) in a micro- reactor by the miniemulsion photopolymerization method using a UV fluorescent as the light source [26]. The polymer yield could be im- proved significantly compared with the batch processing. Hornung et al. successfully conducted the polymerization processes of acryla- mides, acrylates and vinyl acetate via the reversible addition-frag- mentation chain transfer approach (RAFT) in microreactors [27]. The products had narrow molecular weight distributions (PDI = 1.15–1.20) with average molecular weights similar to those synthesized via the batch RAFT polymerization. It was demonstrated that the liquid-liquid slug flow in microreactors overcame the oxygen-sensitive nature of the RAFT process and provided a facile and alternative scale-up route for industrial application. A large number of studies have been carried out to understand the

current experiments. The wide dispersity of the molecule weight dis- tribution might be attributed to that the initiation rate was slow and thus the chain initiation occurred along the entire length of the capil- lary microreactor. Moreover, the PANI particles were detected to be nanofibers with diameters in the range of 50–130 nm and with lengths varying from 500 nm to 1000 nm. The PANI yield was used to evaluate both the mass transfer and polymerization processes, which was de- termined by the weight ratio of the final products to the starting monomers. A high-speed CCD camera (PhantomLab110-12G, USA) installed with a stereo microscope (Olympus, SZ2-CLS, Japan) was used for capturing snapshots of the liquid-liquid slug flow inside the capillary microreactor with a heating-cooling circulator (DC0506, −5 to 100 °C, Shanghai FangRui Instrument Co., Ltd. China) to control the tempera- ture. The viscosities of the organic phase and the aqueous phase were determined by a viscometer (DV2T, Brookfield, USA). The interfacial tension between water and carbon tetrachloride was measured by Surface Tensiometer (KRUSS GmbH, Germany) at room temperature. The chemical structure of PANI was characterized by the FTIR spectra recorded via a Nicolet 470 Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectro- meter in a frequency range of 450–4000 cm−1. The particle samples were crushed and then measured in KBr pellets at room temperature.

[2] D. Parida, C.A. Serra, F. Bally, D.K. Garg, A. Hoarau, Intensifying the ATRP synthesis of statistical copolymers by continuous micromixing flow techniques, Green Process Synth. 1 (2012) 525–532. [3] Y. Su, Y. Zhao, F. Jiao, G. Chen, Q. Yuan, The intensification of rapid reactions for multiphase systems in a microchannel reactor by packing microparticles, AIChE J. 57 (2011) 1409–1418. [4] J.R. Burns, C. Ramshaw, The intensification of rapid reactions in multiphase sys- tems using slug flow in capillaries, Lab Chip 1 (2001) 10–15. [5] H.P. Gemoets, Y. Su, M. Shang, V. Hessel, R. Luque, T. Noël, Liquid phase oxidation chemistry in continuous-flow microreactors, Chem. Soc. Rev. 45 (2016) 83–117. [6] J.I. Park, A. Saﬀari, S. Kumar, A. Günther, E. Kumacheva, Microfluidic synthesis of polymer and inorganic particulate materials, Annu. Rev. Mater. Res. 40 (2010) 415–443. [7] K. Wang, L. Li, P. Xie, G. Luo, Liquid–liquid microflow reaction engineering, React. Chem. Eng. 2 (2017) 611–627. [8] K.F. Jensen, Flow chemistry-Microreaction technology comes of age, AIChE J. 63 (2017) 858–869. [9] J. Zhang, K. Wang, A.R. Teixeira, K.F. Jensen, G. Luo, Design and scaling up of microchemical systems: a review, Annu. Rev. Chem. Biomol. Eng. 8 (2017) 285–305. [10] P. Zhu, L. Wang, Passive and active droplet generation with microfluidics: a review, Lab Chip 17 (2016) 34–75. [11] T.J. Ober, D. Foresti, J.A. Lewis, Active mixing of complex fluids at the microscale, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 112 (2015) 12293–12298. [12] K. Wang, G. Luo, Microflow extraction: a review of recent development, Chem. Eng. Sci. 169 (2017) 18–33. [13] P. Derboven, P.H. Van Steenberge, J. Vandenbergh, M.F. Reyniers, T. Junkers, R. D'Hooge, D.G.B. Marin, Improved livingness and control over branching in RAFT polymerization of acrylates: could microflow synthesis make the diﬀerence? Macromol. Rapid Commun. 36 (2015) 2149–2155. [14] N. Lorber, B. Pavageau, E. Mignard, Investigating acrylic acid polymerization by using a droplet-based millifluidics approach, Macromol. Symp. 296 (2010) 203–209. [15] W. Wang, M.J. Zhang, L.Y. Chu, Functional polymeric microparticles engineered from controllable microfluidic emulsions, Acc. Chem. Res. 47 (2014) 373–384. [16] Y. Okubo, T. Maki, F. Nakanishi, T. Hayashi, K. Mae, Precise control of polymer particle properties using droplets in the microchannel, Chem. Eng. Sci. 65 (2010) 386–391. [17] C. Tonhauser, A. Natalello, H. Löwe, H. Frey, Microflow technology in polymer synthesis, Macromolecules 45 (2012) 9551–9570. [18] P.F. Dong, J.H. Xu, H. Zhao, G.S. Luo, Preparation of 10μm scale monodispersed particles by jetting flow in coaxial microfluidic devices, Chem. Eng. J. 214 (2013) 106–111. [19] B. Herranz-Blanco, L.R. Arriaga, E. Makila, A. Correia, N. Shrestha, S. Mirza, D.A. Weitz, J. Salonen, J. Hirvonen, H.A. Santos, Microfluidic assembly of multi- stage porous silicon-lipid vesicles for controlled drug release, Lab Chip 14 (2014) 1083–1086. [20] R.F. Shepherd, J.C. Conrad, S.K. Rhodes, D.R. Link, M. Marquez, D.A. Weitz, J.A. Lewis, Microfluidic assembly of homogeneous and janus colloid-filled hydrogel granules, Langmuir 22 (2006) 8618–8622. [21] J.H. Bannock, S.H. Krishnadasan, A.M. Nightingale, C.P. Yau, K. Khaw, D. Burkitt, J.J.M. Halls, M. Heeney, J.C. de Mello, Continuous synthesis of device-grade semiconducting polymers in droplet-based microreactors, Adv. Funct. Mater. 23 (2013) 2123–2129. [22] H. Seyler, J. Subbiah, D.J. Jones, A.B. Holmes, W.W. Wong, Controlled synthesis of poly(3-hexylthiophene) in continuous flow, Beilstein J. Org. Chem. 9 (2013) 1492–1500. [23] A.E. Rudenko, C.A. Wiley, J.F. Tannaci, B.C. Thompson, Optimization of direct arylation polymerization conditions for the synthesis of poly(3-hexylthiophene), J. Polym. Sci. Pol. Chem. 51 (2013) 2660–2668. [24] R.H. Lohwasser, J. Bandara, M. Thelakkat, Tailor-made synthesis of poly(3-hex- ylthiophene) with carboxylic end groups and its application as a polymer sensitizer in solid-state dye-sensitized solar cells, J. Mater. Chem. 19 (2009) 4126–4130. [25] R. Miyakoshi, A. Yokoyama, T. Yokozawa, Synthesis of poly(3-hexylthiophene) with a narrower polydispersity, Macromol. Rapid Commun. 25 (2004) 1663–1666. [26] E. Lobry, F. Jasinski, M. Penconi, A. Chemtob, C. Croutxé-Barghorn, E. Oliveros, A.M. Braun, A. Criqui, Synthesis of acrylic latex via microflow miniemulsion pho- topolymerization using fluorescent and LED UV lamps, Green Process Synth. 3 (2014) 335–344. [27] C.H. Hornung, C. Guerrero-Sanchez, M. Brasholz, S. Saubern, J. Chiefari, G. Moad, E. Rizzardo, S.H. Thang, Controlled RAFT polymerization in a continuous flow microreactor, Org. Process. Res. Dev. 15 (2011) 593–601. [28] Y. Zhao, G. Chen, Q. Yuan, Liquid-liquid two-phase flow patterns in a rectangular microchannel, AIChE J. 52 (2006) 4052–4060. [29] D. Tsaoulidis, P. Angeli, Eﬀect of channel size on mass transfer during liquid–liquid plug flow in small scale extractors, Chem. Eng. J. 262 (2015) 785–793. [30] N. Azimi, M. Rahimi, N. Abdollahi, Using magnetically excited nanoparticles for liquid–liquid two-phase mass transfer enhancement in a Y-type micromixer, Chem. Eng. Process. 97 (2015) 12–22. [31] P. Plouﬀe, D.M. Roberge, A. Macchi, Liquid–liquid flow regimes and mass transfer in various micro-reactors, Chem. Eng. J. 300 (2016) 9–19. [32] G. Li, M. Shang, Y. Song, Y. Su, Characterization of liquid-liquid mass transfer performance in a capillary microreactor system, AIChE J. 64 (2018) 1106–1116. [33] J.R. Bourne, Mixing and the selectivity of chemical reactions, Org. Process. Res. Dev. 7 (2003) 471–508. [34] N. Nuraje, K. Su, N.L. Yang, H. Matsui, Liquid/Liquid interfacial polymerization to

flow behavior, mass transfer and reaction processes of liquid-liquid heterogeneous systems in microreactors [28–32]. For these liquid-li- quid heterogeneous reactions, the mass transfer performance aﬀects the final reaction performance significantly [33]. The mass transfer per- formance can be intensified by reducing the transport distance, im- proving the concentration gradient, and enlarging the interfacial area between two immiscible liquid phases, which is beneficial for im- proving the reaction rate and the yield of the target product especially for fast heterogeneous reaction processes. In particular, the mass transfer performance may aﬀect the monomer conversion and the properties of polymer products in many polymerization processes. Although microreactors were frequently ap- plied in various polymerization processes for liquid-liquid hetero- geneous systems, the mass transfer performance in these processes has not been characterized so far. In fact, the existence of concentration gradients of monomers, initiators and polymers, and the significant variation of fluid properties (e.g., viscosity) during the polymerization both result in a more complicated mass transfer process in the poly- merization compared with that in small-molecule reaction systems. Therefore, a systematical evaluation of the mass transfer performance during the polymerization for liquid-liquid heterogeneous systems in microreactors is necessary. Recently, intrinsically conductive polymers (ICPs), such as poly- aniline (PANI), polypyrrole (PPy), polythiophene (PTH), poly(p-phe- nylene-vinylene) (PPV), etc., have aroused great interest for their spe- cial optical and electronic properties. Many articles devote to investigating ICPs in terms of synthesis, kinetics and mechanisms with both the experiment and numerical simulation methods [34–38]. Polyaniline (PANI) is considered as one of the most promising materials in the family of conductive polymers due to its ease of synthesis, good environmental stability, desirable conductivity and tunable properties [39–41]. Moreover, PANI has a variety of applications for the fabrica- tion of rechargeable batteries [42,43], solar cells [44,45], sensors and indicators [46–48], and electrorheological devices [49]. Interfacial polymerization of aniline via the chemical oxidation method, con- ducted in flasks or vessels at low temperature with long reaction time, is a common approach for the preparation of PANI nanofibers with

By integrating Eq. (16), the residence time can be expressed as the following equation (Eq. (17) when a certain monomer conversion (X) needs to be achieved with only considering the initiation stage:

was reported to be interfacial polymerization [50–53]. Compared with batch reactors, microreactors provide much higher mass transfer rate to reach more uniform reaction conditions for the aniline polymerization process. Furthermore, the mass transfer enhancement due to the poly- merization can be evaluated by the enhancement factor (E):

the capillary microreactor, a quartz needle with 0.5 mm inner diameter and 0.75 mm outer diameter was inserted into the T-micromixer by means of interference fit and situated into the front part of the capillary connected with the T-micromixer, and such a quartz needle was used for introducing the dispersed phase, as shown in Fig. 1(B). More im- portantly, such a modified structure prohibited the contact between the wall of the T-micromixer and the PANI particles, and thus eﬃciently avoided the channel clogging. The formation mechanism of PANI na- nofibers in the microreactor is schematically depicted in Fig. 2. With the time prolonging, aniline transported gradually from the organic phase to the organic-aqueous interface and then to the bulk of the aqueous phase. Monomers were consumed and polymerized with the eﬀect of oxidants. Because aniline was slightly soluble in water, aniline migrated continuously to the aqueous phase to maintain the dissolution equilibrium as the polymerization proceeded. Polymer particles would exist in the aqueous phase due to their hydrophilic properties although the solubility of PANI in water was poor. In addition, the components in the organic and aqueous phases during the polymerization are listed in Table 2. Upon exiting the capillary microreactor, the reaction mixture was collected in a conical flask containing the ammonium hydroxide aqueous solution with the complete termination of the polymerization. The solid-liquid mixture was washed with deionized water for 30 min under the vacuum filtration to remove byproducts (aniline hydro- chloride and oligomers such as dimers, trimers and tetramers) and unreacted materials. The obtained solid products were transferred into a vacuum oven and dried at 80 °C for 24 h in order to remove the re- maining traces of solvent. Finally, dry PANI nanofibers were obtained as shown in the SEM image (Fig. 2). Each experiment was repeated at least two times, and the average measurement values were taken as final results.

[50–53]. This polymerization route is usually performed in a biphasic system with aniline dissolved in the organic phase and the oxidant (eg. ammonium persulfate ((NH4)2S2O8) or ferric chloride (FeCl3)) dissolved in the aqueous acidic solution. Polymers are formed at the organic- aqueous interface firstly, then migrate to the bulk of the aqueous phase, and finally suspend inside the aqueous phase. Afterwards, PANI pro- ducts can be obtained after filtration, purification and drying. Never- theless, such a polymerization process is highly exothermic with the enthalpy change of −105 kcal/mol and its reaction kinetics is rather fast [54], resulting in the diﬃculty to control over process parameters in conventional reactors. Especially, a part of PANI particles would be detained at the organic-aqueous interface during the polymerization conducted in the conventional reactors, which prohibits the contact between monomers and oxidants. Thus, the batch processing based on these reactors (e.g., flasks) usually needs a rather long reaction time to reach a high monomer conversion. Based on the characteristics of interfacial chemical oxidative poly- merization of aniline, this work presents a novel approach for the synthesis of PANI with the use of microreactors within the liquid-liquid slug flow regime. To the best of our knowledge, such a continuous-flow protocol for preparing PANI has never been reported. In particular, the hydrodynamics and mass transfer performance associated with the li- quid-liquid heterogeneous polymerization of aniline in capillary mi- croreactors were characterized. The eﬀects of various operational parameters such as polymerization temperature, concentration of hy- drochloric acid, volumetric flow rate, and flow rate ratio of two im- miscible liquid phases on the mass transfer and the polymerization process in the capillary microreactor were investigated systematically. The dispersed phase slug size was predicted by a correlation and the specific surface area was calculated at diﬀerent volumetric flow rate ratios of the aqueous phase to the organic phase in the microreactor. Hatta number was calculated based on a film model in order to further characterize the relationship between the mass transfer and the poly- merization process. Moreover, the eﬀect of the polymerization on the mass transfer enhancement was evaluated by comparing the overall physical volumetric mass transfer coeﬃcient with the overall chemical volumetric mass transfer coeﬃcient.