A typical reaction profile for the hydrogenation of LA to GVL is depicted in Fig. 2. The reaction was performed in the packed bed mi- croreactor with a fixed length (Lbed = 0.8 m), where the weight hourly space velocity (WHSV; Eq. (4)) was varied by adjusting the total flow rate (Qtot; = QG + QL, where QG and QL are the respective gas and liquid flow rates under the reaction temperature and pressure without consideration of the flow rate change due to reaction consumption) while the inlet gas to liquid volumetric flow ratio (QG,0/QL,0) was kept equal. Note that the pressure drop in the packed bed microreactor es- timated according to the literature [59] was found insignificant com- pared to the total pressure applied. The results at WHSV = 6.0 gfeed/ (gcat·h) are used as the benchmark conditions throughout this work (CLA,0 = 5 wt%, QG,0/QL,0 = 4.5, 12 bar H2, 130 °C, Lbed = 0.8 m, wc = 0.9 g, dp = 0.45 mm). Only the LA and GVL concentrations at the microreactor outlet could be determined quantitatively by GC-FID. The GVL yield (Eq. (2)) was consistently lower than the LA conversion (Eq. (1)), indicating that the reaction was not fully selective towards GVL and a closed mass balance could not be obtained by GC-FID analysis alone (Fig. 2). The gap in the mass balance was attributed to the HPA intermediate that could not be measured quantitatively by GC-FID. HPA could be detected by 1H NMR, from which the molar ratios of LA, GVL and HPA in the reaction mixture were determined. These ratios, com- bined with the measured LA and GVL concentrations, resulted in nearly closed mass balances (cf. Section S1 in the Supplementary Material for more detailed explanation). As such, the HPA yield was determined from the LA conversion and GVL yield, assuming a 100% total se- lectivity towards HPA and GVL. This was further proven by the fact that alternative reaction products (i.e., MTHF and α-AL; cf. Scheme 1) were neither detected by GC nor 1H NMR. For the over-hydrogenation of GVL towards MTHF, it is expected that much higher temperature/pressure and longer residence times are required. For instance, it has been re- ported that no GVL conversion was found after 4 h at 130 °C and 100 bar H2 for the solvent-free conversion of GVL over 5 wt% Ru/C [68]. Also by using GVL (with an initial concentration of CGVL,0 at 5 wt %) instead of LA as the substrate under otherwise the same benchmark conditions shown above, no appreciable decrease (< 5%) in the GVL concentration and no MTHF formation was observed at the

Several operation conditions were varied in the packed bed micro- reactor to investigate their influence on the mass transfer character- istics and reaction rate during LA hydrogenation over Ru/C. An initial LA concentration of 5 wt% was used in the majority of experiments. A few additional experiments were conducted with 10 wt% LA, which resulted in a lower LA conversion and GVL yield implying that the apparent LA consumption rate in the microreactor is below first order in LA (cf. Section S3 in the Supplementary Material for a more detailed explanation). The influence of gas–liquid flow behavior (i.e., total flow rate and gas to liquid flow ratio), H2 pressure, reaction temperature and catalyst particle size on the measured LA conversion and GVL yield at the outlet of the packed bed microreactor is presented in Fig. 3. The selectivity towards GVL is on the order of ca. 40–60% for most ex- periments depicted (i.e., in the case of not all LA being consumed). Influence of flow rate. The total mixture flow rate was altered (Qtot = 0.27–0.55 mL/min) at a fixed inlet gas to liquid volumetric flow ratio (QG,0/QL,0 = 4.5). The WHSV was kept equal by varying the total mixture flow rate proportionally with the bed length (Lbed = 0.4–0.8 m) or alternatively the total catalyst weight in the bed (wc = 0.45–0.9 g; particle size being ca. 0.45 mm). For a given WHSV, both the LA con- version and GVL yield increased with the increasing flow rate (Fig. 3a). Since parameters that could aﬀect the intrinsic kinetic rate (i.e., tem- perature, concentrations of reactants, WHSV and gas–liquid flow ratio) were not changed, the observed diﬀerence in the reaction performance strongly indicates mass transfer limitations at lower flow rates. In other words, operation at higher flow rates would positively aﬀect the ga- s–liquid [50,69,70] and liquid–solid [71,72] mass transfer coeﬃcients in packed bed microreactors, therewith improving the overall reaction rate (in terms of the increased conversion and yield) if the intrinsic kinetic rate is relatively fast. Influence of gas to liquid flow ratio. The inlet gas to liquid volumetric flow ratio was varied (QG,0/QL,0 = 2.24–6.71) by keeping the total mixture flow rate equal (Qtot = 0.55 mL/min), the bed length being unchanged at 0.8 m (with a catalyst weight of 0.9 g). The measured LA conversion and GVL yield increased with the increasing gas to liquid flow ratio (Fig. 3b). Although the gas–liquid and external liquid–solid mass transfer coeﬃcients in packed bed (micro)reactors are (slightly)

To explain the observed reaction performance in the packed bed microreactor, the gas–liquid–solid contact behavior and the associated mass transfer characteristics, the intrinsic kinetics and their roles in determining the overall reaction rate need to be well understood. This eventually would lead to the establishment of a microreactor model that describes the LA hydrogenation results (especially in terms of the LA conversion) under steady state conditions and indicate the direction of improvement in the microreactor design and operation. Gas-liquid flow pattern in the packed bed microreactor. From the re- spective gas and liquid superficial velocities (i.e., jG and jL) of experi- ments in this work, the gas–liquid flow pattern in the packed bed mi- croreactor was predicted to be liquid-dominated slug flow based on the flow map proposed by Al-Rifai et al. [58] (Fig. 4). This flow map was derived based on their experiments with a square microreactor (width × height × length = 300 μm × 600 μm × 190 mm), packed with 1 wt% Au-Pd/TiO2 catalyst (dp = 65 μm) operated under an up- stream slug or (wavy-)annular flow profile at 120 °C and 1 bar [58]. Thus, such flow map is expected applicable to a large extent in the current work, given similar inlet mixing conditions (i.e., an upstream

phase and 1,4-dioxane as the organic solvent. The eﬀect of various operating parameters in the packed bed microreactor (e.g., flow rate and ratio, temperature, pressure, catalyst particle size and concentra- tion) on the reaction performance (in terms of the LA conversion and GVL yield) was investigated. A microreactor model was subsequently developed to describe the experimental results and to further identify the rate limiting steps (i.e., gas–liquid mass transfer, external or in- ternal liquid–solid mass transfer, or kinetics). Finally, with the devel- oped model, directions for further reaction optimization in the micro- reactor could be established.

Reactions were performed in a Microactivity Eﬃ reactor from PID Eng&Tech (Fig. 1). The liquid solution, consisting of 5–10 wt% LA and 1 wt% dodecane (in situ internal standard) in the 1,4-dioxane solvent, was fed at an inlet flow rate (QL,0) of 0.05–0.17 mL/min by a Williams piston pump (model P250 V225) to a stainless steel T-junction (0.75 mm bore size). H2 or N2 gas (supplied from a gas cylinder) was regulated by a mass flow controller (MFC) from Bronkhorst (EL-FLOW Select F-211CV) at an inlet gas flow rate (QG,0; i.e., at room temperature and reactor pressure) ranging from 0.16 to 0.33 mL/min. The gas and liquid feeds were guided through separate polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) capillaries (inner diameter: 0.8 mm; length: ca. 50 cm) that were preheated in an oven operated at a temperature of 70–130 °C. An upstream gas–liquid slug flow was then generated by mixing both feeds

where mL is the liquid mass flow rate. The void fraction in the packed bed microreactor (ε) is determined by

The measured microreactor performance is further compared with the literature results, where a weight hourly space velocity of the LA itself (WHSV(LA); in gLA/(gcat·h)) was recalculated in order to account for the LA concentration diﬀerence in all works (Table 1). The value of WHSV(LA) was estimated for packed bed reactors or microreactors from

a Microreactor (dC = 1.6 mm). b Packed bed reactor (6 mm inner diameter). c Reaction temperature. d H2 pressure.

the division of the inlet mass flow rate of LA by the packed catalyst weight, and for batch slurry reactors from the initial mass of LA divided by the product of the suspended catalyst weight and the batch reaction time. In the current microreactor (dC = 1.6 mm and Lbed = 0.75 m) with 1,4-dioxane as the solvent, a best GVL yield of 84% was obtained at 100% LA conversion over the 0.3 mm diameter particles of Ru/C cat- alyst under a weight hourly space velocity of the liquid phase (WHSV) of 3.0 gfeed/(gcat·h) (corresponding to WHSV(LA) = 0.15 gLA/(gcat·h)), 130 °C and 12 bar H2. As Table 1 reveals, under similar reaction con- ditions (i.e., 100 or 150 °C, 30 bar H2 and 1,4-dioxane as the solvent), nearly 100% GVL yield was obtained over 5 wt% Ru/C catalyst at a WHSV(LA) of 2.1 or 16.7 gLA/(gcat·h) in a batch autoclave [24]. Per- forming the reaction with water as the solvent and otherwise similar reaction conditions in a batch setup (130 °C and 45 bar H2) resulted in 97% LA conversion and 88% GVL yield over 3 wt% Ru/C catalyst at a WHSV(LA) of 50 gLA/(gcat·h) [27], whereas a WHSV(LA) of 4.15 gLA/ (gcat·h) was required to achieve similar results in the milli-reactor packed with 0.5 wt% Ru/C at the same temperature and pressure [22]. The lesser performance in the latter case, in terms of a lower WHSV(LA) value required for a similar LA conversion, was probably due to the lower Ru loading and the much larger catalyst particles used (dp = 1.88 mm vs. 60 μm in the batch autoclave), which caused li- quid–solid mass transfer limitations that resulted in a slower reaction rate. In other words, batch reactors allow the use of finer catalyst particles than in packed bed reactors (i.e., due to otherwise the ex- cessive pressure drop generated in the latter). As such, external and internal liquid–solid mass transfer limitations can be significantly im- proved or even overcome in batch reactors by the increased specific catalyst area and shorter diﬀusion distance within catalyst pores, therewith accelerating the reaction rate towards obtaining the intrinsic one. These would also largely explain the observed less satisfactory performance in the current packed bed microreactor compared with its batch counterparts. Despite the larger catalyst particles used in the milli-packed bed reactor [22], a better performance was found than the microreactor studied here. This may be attributed to the use of higher H2 pressure and water as the solvent in the former case. The better reaction performance of water than 1,4-dioxane as the solvent was also seen in batch reactor studies [24,27], likely due to the solvent eﬀect on the kinetic parameters. Besides that, H2 has a higher solubility and diﬀusivity in water than in 1,4-dioxane [73–75], which positively af- fected both the H2 mass transfer rate towards the catalyst internal surface and the kinetics (i.e., in the case the rate is above zero order in H2).

The LA conversion (XLA), GVL yield (YGVL) and selectivity (σGVL) are determined as follows

gas–liquid slug flow profile) and value range of the microchannel dia- meter to particle ratio. In the majority of our experiments, the upstream slug flow profile had relatively long gas bubbles and liquid slugs (Fig. 1). To test if this negatively aﬀected the reaction performance, the upstream gas–liquid slug flow profile was further altered by placing a PFA capillary (inner diameter: 1.6 mm) packed with an inert bed of SiC particles (particle diameter: 0.48 mm; bed length: 10 cm) right after the stainless steel T- junction, by which significantly shorter bubbles/slugs were generated in the connected short PTFE capillary and subsequently fed to the packed bed microreactor. The change of the upstream slug flow profile did not have a considerable eﬀect on the LA conversion and GVL yield for given reaction conditions (cf. Section S4 in the Supplementary Material for more details). Thus, it is concluded that even in the case of the relatively long bubbles/slugs in the upstream flow, the gas–li- quid–solid contact pattern and the associated mass transfer in the packed bed microreactor are not much negatively aﬀected. From this it is safely assumed that all experiments in this work were performed in the liquid-dominated slug flow regime, indicating a high liquid–solid interaction [58]. Mass transfer and reaction analyses in the packed bed microreactor. In the heterogeneously catalyzed hydrogenation of LA, H2 is first trans- ferred from the gas to the liquid phase, and then both LA and the dis- solved H2 travel towards the solid catalyst active sites. The microreactor model was therefore based on the mass transfer and reaction steps of H2 and LA, consisting of (1) transfer of H2 from the gas bulk to the ga- s–liquid interface and the subsequent H2 absorption at the interface, (2) H2 transfer from the liquid interface to the liquid bulk, (3) H2/LA transfer from the liquid bulk to the external catalyst surface (3a and b) and finally (4) the internal diﬀusion of H2/LA into the catalyst pores, with the reaction occurring on the catalytic surface of the pores (Fig. 5). The transfer rate for each individual step is estimated based on the literature (empirical) mass transfer or kinetic correlations. The physical fluid properties relevant to such estimation are given in Section S5 in the Supplementary Material. The simplified mass transfer and reaction steps shown in Fig. 5 were applied to the microreactor cross-section at one axial location. This, combined with the estimated transfer rate of each step and the overall mass balance in the microreactor, finally resulted in a one-dimensional model (vide infra). Gas-liquid mass transfer. Since pure H2 gas was used, there were no

Correlations for estimating Sh as a function of the conventional large packed bed reactor geometry and flow conditions are extensively reported, however, these are limited for packed bed microreactor configurations where the inner channel to particle diameter ratio (dC/ dp) is generally low (e.g., being 3.55–5.33 in this work) [71,72]. Ac- cording to Tidona et al. [71], Sh for (capillary) reactors with low values of dC/dp (< 6.6) is best described by the correlation of Wakao and Funazkri [76]:

several fundamental advantages (e.g., enhanced heat/mass transfer and reduced safety risks) [37,38]. The enhanced mass transfer in micro- reactors makes them interesting for multiphase reactions that tend to be limited by the species transport in (either of) the multiple phases, which is the case particularly when the intrinsic kinetic rate is relatively fast [39]. Furthermore, the superior heat transfer capability in micro- reactors, as well as the small lateral channel dimensions, allows safer operation by the precise temperature control and reduced explosion risk (e.g., in the case of strongly exothermic reactions or operation in the explosive regime) [40,41]. These merits are advantageous for hy- drogenation reactions that often require high pressure operation to improve mass transfer (e.g., given low hydrogen solubility in the re- action solvent) and fine temperature control to avoid the hotspot for- mation in the reactor leading to runaway. Solid catalysts for such re- actions can be also well handled in microreactors and are usually incorporated as wall-coatings or as small particles in a packed bed configuration [42–44]. To the best of the authors' knowledge, only one report dealt with the LA hydrogenation to GVL in microreactors [45]. Herein, the reaction was performed with formic acid as the hydrogen donor in water/methanol. A stainless steel capillary microreactor was wall-coated with silver/palladium nanoparticles supported on graph- ited carbon nitride (AgPd/g-C3N4). In a 50 min residence time at 70 °C, 100% GVL yield was obtained. The immobilization of solid catalysts onto a microreactor wall often requires tedious coating procedures and the catalyst replacement (i.e., in the case of irreversible catalyst deac- tivation or reactor malfunctioning) may require energy intensive pro- cedures [38,46,47]. An alternative and more convenient way is by loading small catalyst particles to an empty microchannel (e.g., by gravitational or vacuum filling). Catalyst particles can then be held in place by filters or small inert particles (e.g., glass beads) to form a packed bed configuration [48–50]. This allows the direct use of com- mercial or laboratory-prepared catalysts (sometimes particle sieving or shaping is needed for compatibility with the microchannel dimension). Although gas–liquid flow characteristics have been widely ex- amined in conventional macroscale packed bed reactors [51], hydro- dynamics in packed bed microreactors are not widely reported yet [49,50,52–59]. The dominance of surface forces over gravitational forces on the micrometer scale results in new gas–liquid flow features in packed bed microreactors [44]. A hydrodynamic study during the benzyl alcohol oxidation reaction in a packed bed microreactor (con- taining 1 wt% Au-Pd/TiO2 catalyst) revealed two major gas–liquid flow patterns including the liquid-dominated slug flow and gas-continuous flow [58]. The liquid-dominated slug flow is similar to the induced pulsing flow in conventional large-scale packed bed reactors, and the gas-continuous flow to the trickle flow [58]. The transition from the liquid-dominated slug flow to gas-continuous flow was found to take place at a much smaller liquid to gas flow ratio than that observed in conventional packed bed reactors, due to the dominance of surface forces in packed bed microreactors. This transition further depends on several other factors such as the upstream gas–liquid flow pattern be- fore entering the bed, particle size, shape and configuration, and the channel to particle diameter ratio [44]. Packed bed microreactors oﬀer a better radial heat transfer than conventional (milli-scale or larger) packed beds, thus suppressing ef- fectively the formation of hot spots and/or the explosion risks [44]. Higher gas–liquid–solid mass transfer rate is also attainable in packed bed microreactors due to smaller particles accommodated [50,60]. Thus, gas–liquid hydrogenation reactions in packed bed microreactors have gained increased research attention over the past decade [36,50,61–66]. In some cases, mass transfer limitations were (almost) eliminated and the reactions were under kinetic control, making packed bed microreactors a promising tool for kinetic investigations

The Ru/C catalyzed hydrogenation of LA to GVL was performed in packed bed microreactors made of PFA with H2 gas as the hydrogen donor and 1,4-dioxane as the solvent. The influence of operating con- ditions (i.e., flow rate, gas to liquid flow ratio, temperature, pressure and catalyst particle size) on the reaction performance was in- vestigated. HPA was identified as an abundantly formed intermediate, which was only further converted to GVL once the majority of LA was consumed. At 130 °C and 12 bar H2, an LA conversion of 100% and a GVL yield of 84% were obtained at a weight hourly space velocity of the liquid phase (WHSV) of 3.0 gfeed/(gcat·h). A microreactor model was developed by considering the respective rates of gas–liquid and external liquid–solid mass transfer, internal diﬀusion combined with surface reaction based on the literature correlations and data. The model was able to describe the LA conversion as a function of the diﬀerent reaction

′r Rate of transfer per unit mass of catalyst (mol/(gcat·s)) T Temperature (°C or K) V Volume (m3) wc Catalyst weight (g) WHSV Weight hourly space velocity (gfeed/(gcat·h) or gLA/(gcat·h)) X Conversion (%) Y Yield (%)

The hydrogenation of levulinic acid (LA) to γ-valerolactone (GVL) was performed in perfluoroalkoxy alkane capillary microreactors packed with a carbon-supported ruthenium (Ru/C) catalyst with an average particle diameter of 0.3 or 0.45 mm. The reaction was executed under an upstream gas–liquid slug flow with 1,4-dioxane as the solvent and H2 as the hydrogen donor in the gas phase. Operating conditions (i.e., flow rate and gas to liquid flow ratio, pressure, temperature and catalyst particle size) were varied in the microreactor to determine the influence of mass transfer and kinetic characteristics on the reaction performance. At 130 °C, 12 bar H2 and a weight hourly space velocity of the liquid feed (WHSV) of 3.0 gfeed/(gcat·h), 100% LA conversion and 84% GVL yield were obtained. Under the conditions tested (70–130 °C and 9–15 bar) the reaction rate was aﬀected by mass transfer, given the notable eﬀect of the mixture flow rate and catalyst particle size on the LA conversion and GVL yield at a certain WHSV. A microreactor model was developed by considering gas–liquid–solid mass transfer therein and the reaction kinetics estimated from the literature correlations and data. This model well describes the measured LA conversion for varying operating conditions, provided that the internal diﬀusion and kinetic rates were not considered rate limiting. Liquid–solid mass transfer of hydrogen towards the external catalyst surface was thus found dominant in most experiments. The developed model can aid in the further optimization of the Ru/C catalyzed levulinic acid hydrogenation in packed bed microreactors.

the fast heat transfer of the microreactor. Liquid samples were collected every 20 min time on stream and prepared for gas chromatography and/or 1H NMR analysis. The ex- perimental data presented in this work are based on the measured sample concentrations under steady state conditions. Steady state was achieved once the measured concentration at the microreactor outlet did not alter for a given time on stream, which was usually after ca. 60 min (cf. Section S1 in the Supplementary Material). This relatively long time required is mainly due to the large empty volume (i.e., be- tween the microreactor and the gas–liquid separator) of the system and the low flow rates used.

in a transparent PTFE capillary (inner diameter: 0.8 mm) for flow vi- sualization. This was then connected to capillary microreactors (with inner diameter of dC = 1.6 mm) made of PFA, packed with 0.5 wt% Ru/ C catalyst particles (weight (wc) of 0.45–0.9 g) by gravitational filling. During the filling procedure, the PFA capillary was frequently tapped to ensure a dense and reproducible packing state. Packed beds with lengths (Lbed) of 0.4–0.8 m were used in a vertical configuration where the gas–liquid mixture was introduced at the top to realize a downward flow. Polyether ether ketone (PEEK) connectors containing filters (75 μm mesh) made of PTFE and chlorotrifluoroethylene (CTFE) were incorporated at the inand outlet of the bed to keep the packing in place. In some experiments, an additional PFA capillary, packed with inert SiC particles, was placed in front of the packed bed microreactor to generate an upstream slug flow with shorter gas bubbles and liquid slugs. The outlet of the microreactor was connected to a PTFE capillary (inner diameter: 0.8 mm) and directed towards a liquid level indicator/ controller (LIC) where the gas and liquid phases were separated. The separator consisted of a capacitive level sensor with a very low dead volume [67]. This separation was regulated by a needle valve (i.e., controlled by the Eﬃ operating system; Fig. 1) in the liquid outlet. The pressure (p) of the outlet gas stream was maintained at 9–15 bar with a pressure control valve located after the gas–liquid separator, after which it was exhausted to the fume hood. This valve was operated by the Eﬃ, based on the measured pressure at the gas outlet by a pressure transducer from Sensor-Technik Wiedemann GmbH (model A09). The gas–liquid flows at the inlet (after the T-junction) and outlet (before the gas–liquid separator) of the packed bed microreactor were passed through a six-way valve. This pneumatic valve (controlled by an elec- trovalve) could be operated in two diﬀerent positions: i) passing the gas–liquid stream through the packed bed and ii) directing the gas–li- quid inlet flow immediately towards the gas–liquid separator and thus bypassing the microreactor (Fig. 1). Photos of the packed bed micro- reactor and slug flow profiles (both upstream and downstream; at room temperature and using N2 as the inert gas instead of H2) are also shown in Fig. 1, which were taken by a Nikon D3300 digital camera equipped with a Nikon lens (AF-S Micro Nikkor 60 mm f/2.8 G ED). Note that an isothermal microreactor operation is assumed in this work, given the preheating of the feeds, the insignificant reaction heat released (e.g., the estimated adiabatic temperature rise being around 7 °C for 5 wt% LA concentration at inlet; calculation details not shown for brevity) and

informative model, dedicated kinetic studies on the hydrogenation of LA to HPA and GVL in 1,4-dioxane are required. By comparing the resistance trends, the contribution of individual reaction parameters to each H2 transfer or reaction step, and further on to the overall reaction rate, could be made clear over a wide range of conditions (Fig. 6). Here, the influence of the combined internal dif- fusion/kinetic resistance (ΩH R ,2 ) is roughly evaluated with the illus- trative case of k = 3kest (since the exact k value is unknown). Each resistance decreases upon increasing the mixture flow rate (with a fixed gas–liquid flow ratio and WHSV being kept equal by varying the bed length; Fig. 6a). This is because the bed length is proportional to the catalyst weight (or bed volume), and an increase of this negatively contributes to all resistances (Eqs. (24)–(26)). This also explains the observed LA conversion increase with the flow rate in- crease (Fig. 3a). It should be noted that at lower flow rates (corre- sponding to a shorter bed), the measured LA conversion was under- estimated by the model (Fig. 3a). Under such low flow rates, it might take (much) longer time for the upstream slug flow to develop into liquid-dominated slug flow in the catalyst bed. This would lead to a lower mass transfer rate in the bed (at least near the inlet section) and thus the overall reaction performance turned out to be somewhat sig- nificantly lower than predicted by the model. The measured LA conversion gradually increased with the in- creasing gas to liquid flow ratio for a given mixture flow rate as ap- proximately predicted by the simplified model (Fig. 3b). However, the external liquid–solid mass transfer resistance of H2 (i.e., the most dominant one) is actually (slightly) increased with the gas to liquid flow ratio (Fig. 6b). The increase in the LA conversion at higher flow ratios is thus mainly attributed to the reduced liquid flow rate (QL,0; cf. Eq. (28)). The gas–liquid mass transfer resistance is also slightly increased by the higher gas to liquid flow ratio (Fig. 6b), whereas the combined internal diﬀusion/kinetic resistance seems not (significantly) aﬀected by this. The H2 pressure does not significantly aﬀect the mass transfer coeﬃcients (kLai and kSac; Eqs. (8) and (13)), but does aﬀect the H2 concentration in the liquid phase. The H2 pressure is linearly propor- tional to CH I L 2, , (Eq. (6)) and thus significantly increases XLA under otherwise unchanged reaction conditions (Eq. (28); Fig. 3c). The pres- sure does not aﬀect the gas–liquid and external liquid–solid mass transfer resistances (Eqs. (7) and (9)). An increase in pressure does positively aﬀect the internal diﬀusion/kinetic resistance, mainly due to the half-order dependency of H2 on the kinetic rate (Fig. 6c). The reaction temperature, under otherwise unchanged conditions, resulted in a significantly higher LA conversion (Fig. 3d). This is mainly due to its positive eﬀect on the gas–liquid and (external) liquid–solid mass transfer rates of H2 (e.g., by decreasing the value of Henry coef- ficient (Eqs. (6) and (7)) and increasing the mass diﬀusivity (Eqs. (8) and (12))). For the temperature tested in this work (between 70 and 130 °C), the overall reaction rate is preliminary determined by the external liquid–solid mass transfer rate. However, at lower tempera- tures the intrinsic kinetic rate would become suﬃciently small, and the liquid phase mass transfer coeﬃcient (kLai; Eq. (8)) is lowered more than the external liquid–solid mass transfer coeﬃcient (kSac; Eq. (12)). Thus, a temperature reduction results in a more appreciable increase in

• Hydrogenation of levulinic acid over Ru/C was tested in microreactors. • 100% levulinic acid conversion and 84% γ-valerolactone yield were ob- tained. • A microreactor model was developed to describe mass transfer and kinetics. • Reaction rate was limited by external liquid–solid mass transfer of H2. • A microreactor optimization strategy was proposed.