Table 1 Performance study of microfluidic reactor

Under the optimized reaction conditions, various sub- strates could be carried out smoothly in the Pd-immobi- lized microchannels (Table 2). The microfluidic reactor exhibited high efficiency and good functional group com- patibility. Substituents such as chloro, nitro, acetyl and methoxy groups on the aryl halides and methoxy, methyl, chloro and formyl groups on arylboronic acids were all tolerated. The coupling reactions worked well for aryl

achieved in our open channel microreactor. This could be attributed to the advantages that offered by microfluidic channels, in which the smaller axial distances and laminar flow pattern might facilitate the substance exchange (reac- tant reaching and product leaving the active sites). In con- ventional flow-based heterogeneous systems, because quite lots of active sites of the catalysts locate deep inside of micropores, substance exchange between the main flow stream and the active sites might be retarded. In stirring systems, the catalyst particle might move together with the solution layer that enwrapped the particle, which could not effectively improve the substance exchange inside deep pores. In an open micro-channel, the active sites at the surface of the channel are uniformly exposed to the solu- tion, as long as the channel is thin enough, the flow in the channel can effectively bring the reactants to the surface and take the products away, which is critical for better catalytic performance. The maximum channel size that can take advantage of this benefit was also related to the linear flow velocity and reaction rate happened on the channel surface. For the cases in which the flow velocity is around several millimeters per second, channels thinner than 200 lm in diameter should be applicable for catalytic reaction.

With the raw materials becoming more limited, it is essential that we strive to make synthetic organic chemistry more efficient and sustainable. Among new strategies developed, microchip-based microreactor technology has received a great deal of attention in recent years, due to its unique advantages (deMello 2006; Watts and Wiles 2007; Jones et al. 2009; Yamada et al. 2009; Bernhard et al. 2010; Chan and Dong-Pyo 2010). Their small size prevents hot spots typically generated in batch reactors (Mason et al. 2007), offering better selectivity and yield for many organic reactions. High surface-area-to-volume ratio allow reac- tions that cannot be easily realized in traditional glassware (Ja¨hnisch et al. 2004; Kawanami et al. 2007; Kobayashi et al. 2004), providing opportunities to run reactions effi- ciently with minimal waste. More importantly, microfluidic systems have the advantages such as high integration and easy combination with other techniques which make them possible to become useful tools in screening both catalysts

The Suzuki cross-coupling reaction of aryl halides (X = I, Br) with aryl boronic acid was successfully carried out in COC-based open channel microreactors with reduced time and lower reactant consumption, which showed great potential for high-throughput screening of catalysts or reaction conditions. The good performance might be a result of the unique flow pattern and diffusion behavior of molecules in microfluidic channels. Because the channel size is in micrometer range, diffusion of the molecules

Pd-Immobilized Microchannel R2

Typically, a solution of 1-iodo-4-methoxybenzene (0.067 M), phenylboronic acid (0.10 M), biphenyl (0.04 M), DMF/ H2O (2/1, 1 mL) and Et3N (0.20 M) was prepared and then 200 ll of reactant mixture was introduced into the sample pool and flowed spontaneously in the channel from one side to the other at the desired reaction temperature by placing the microreactor on a pre-heated thermostat. The time that the reactant mixture flows inside the channel was taken as the reaction time which was approximately 1 min for channels 15 cm long. After 30 min, the reaction prod- ucts were collected and analyzed off-line by GC.

between the main stream and the channel surface takes only several seconds or less. Therefore, continuous supply of reactants and effective removal of products through the laminar flow could be beneficial to heterogeneous catalysis in which catalysts are immobilized on the surface of the microchannel. We anticipate that, with similar experi- mental protocols, it should be possible to immobilize other catalysts such as gold, nickel or copper onto the inner surface of COC microchannels. Also, it is believed that, polymeric layer, such as DMAPMA, may provide a supe- rior reaction environment for some transition metal-based heterogeneous catalytic reactions. Further study in this direction is currently in progress.

3.2 Surface modification of microfluidic channels and COC plates

Typically, a copper wire (about 120 lm in diameter, 20 cm in length) was placed on a COC plate (about 1.5 cm 9 6.5 cm) in a predefined shape with its two ends extruded out the COC plate, then the plate together with the wire were sandwiched between two glass micro slides using four small binder clips. The assembly was put in an oven at 150C for 20 min and allowed to cool down to room temperature. Then the plastic plate with copper wire was put into concentrated nitric acid for about 20 min to etch the copper wire away thoroughly and thus get the empty channel. The resulting channel plate and another blank COC plate with two holes previously drilled were soni- cated in ethanol for 10 min. After drying, the two plates were assembled together with holes aligned along the channel and were sandwiched between two glass micro slides clamped by binder clips. The assembly was put in an oven at 122C for 10 min to seal the chip and form enclosed microchannel. The channel open to the edge of the microchip was glued with dissolved COC in toluene after the reservoirs were glued at the holes. The effective channel length, which defined by the position of inlet and outlet access holes drilled on the channel was 15 cm unless mentioned otherwise (Fig. 1).

