Diazotization reactions in micro-reactors Diazotization reac- tions were carried out in a microreactor shown in Fig. 8a, which was assembled with an interdigital channel configura- tion micro-mixer (SIMM-V2, IMM, Germany) connected with a Φ1/16″ T-connector through a stainless steel tube by the way of the co-axial dual pipe, with the T-connector con- nected with a FEP tube (1.0 mm ID) as residence time delay loop. The microreactor was immersed in a cold bath with the temperature set at 0–10 °C. In a typical operation, o- ethylaniline and 5.7 M sodium nitrite aqueous solution were, respectively, introduced to SIMM-V2 by two syringe pumps to form O/W microdroplets, with the molar ratio of amine to sodium nitrite of 1:05–1:1.1. The stream then was mixed with 6 M hydrochloric acid in the T-connector and flowed through in the FEP tube for a time of 5–20 s. The effluent was collected in a flask containing a potassium iodide solution. The mixture was stirred at 60 °C for 5 h. It was then filtered and washed with distilled water and ethyl acetate. The residue was extract- ed with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layer was washed with 10% aqueous solution of sodium sulfite and then it was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was evapo- rated to afford aryl iodides [26].To obtain the conversion of

Effect of the total flow rate The total flow rate of o- ethylaniline and sodium nitrite has important influence on the mixing and the productivity.

Abstract We design a new continuous diazotization microreaction process in which concentrated acid and sodium nitrite solutions are used. We form oil in water (O/W) microdroplets by mixing amine with sodium nitrite aqueous solution, which react with mineral acid to make the diazotization. In this way, the formed particles are dispersed in the aqueous phase, which can flow with the main stream, and consequently are consumed. Then the fluid can smoothly flow without clogging in the microchannels and we can achieve continuous operation. We use aniline, o-methylaniline, m-methylaniline, and o-ethylaniline as the raw materials, 6 M HCl and 6.5 M H2SO4 as the acid as well as sodium nitrite to demonstrate the feasibility. The resulting diazonium salts are converted to iodo-substitute aromatic compounds to measure the yield. The results show that, SIMM-V2 micromixer is efficient to form the emulsion. Mixing the microdroplets with acid in a co-axial flow way can prevent clogging. In hydrochloric acid medium, high reaction yield can be obtained when the reaction temperature is 4 °C and the residence time is 13–15 s. In sulfuric acid medium, high conversion of aromatic amine of up to 99% and yield of approximately 90% can be achieved at the reaction temperature of 9 °C and the residence time of 14–16 s. This process provides efficient continuous diazotization reactions using concentrated acid and sodium nitrite solutions, minimizing the production of waste water.

when conducting the diazotization reactions. This poses a problem to conduct such reaction in microreactor resulting from the formation of solids after mixing amine with acid. To this end, we propose a process of conducting continuous diazotization reaction which is carried out by mixing liquid amine with a sodium nitrite aqueous solution to form O/W microdroplets, followed by contacting with mineral acid. As such the formed solid particles from amine and acid are to be dispersed in the aqueous phase. Hence they can flow with the main stream in microchannels, avoiding clogging. High con- centrations of acid and sodium nitrite solutions can be used. We first examine the mixing of o-ethylaniline with 5.7 M sodium nitrite and consequent mixing with 6 M hydrochloric acid by two Φ1/16″ T-type connectors at 2 °C. The molar ratio of o-ethylaniline to sodium nitrite to hydrochloric acid is 1:1.05:3.2, with the ratio of flow rate of 1:1.44:4.16. Microscopic observation of the flow pattern reveals that amine and sodium nitrite form segmented flow after mixing in the first mixer, and the length of the amine segment decreases with increasing the flow rate at the total flow rate of less than 7.32 mL/min (Fig. 1a-d). After mixing with acid in the second mixer, solids can be observed immediately and clogging oc- curs in 5 s. We then try to mix amine with sodium nitrite in a co-axle T-type mixer. Segment flow is also formed, resulting in clogging after mixing with acid. Apparently such simple mixing method cannot avoid clogging. To obtain O/W microdroplets after mixing amine with so- dium nitrite, we tested SIMM-V2 that is more suitable to generate such flow pattern because of its more complex mixing principle as well as much smaller channel size than the T-connector [17]. When the total flow rate of o- ethylaniline and sodium nitrite is 1.22 mL/min, microdroplets can be observed, which quickly phase separate to form slug flow (Fig. 1e). Increasing the total flow rate to 1.464 mL/min leads to the formation of much more microdroplets, which can last longer time before they change to slugs (Fig. 1f). We can generate stable O/W flow at the amine and sodium nitrite total flow rate of 2.44 mL/min (Fig. 1g) and the amine droplets get smaller with increasing the flow rate (Fig. 1h). Mixing the O/ W mixture with acid in a simple T-type mixer by collision can lead to smooth operation of the reaction for at least 3 min before clogging occurs. We then examine the way of mixing the O/W mixture with acid on the smooth operation of the diazotization reaction. When the O/W mixture is mixed with acid by shearing, the system can run for 3.5 min, and then clogging occurs. When the O/W mixture and acid are mixed in a co-axial structure, the system can run smoothly for a long time. These results indi- cate that the co-axial mixing is a suitable way. In the following experiments, we use the designed diazotization setup which is assembled with a SIMM-V2 to mix amine and sodium nitrite, connected with a T-type co-axial mixer to mix with acid to examine the reaction parameters.

the yield of o-ethyliodide increases from 78.4 to 82.3%. Further increasing the residence time 26 s leads to the increase in the conversion of o-ethylaniline to 99.7%, however, the yield of o-ethyl iodide decreases to 76.9%. The decrease in yield on increasing the residence time is probably due to some decomposition of the diazonium salt and coupling side reac- tions. Thus the suitable residence time is considered to be 13 s.

diazonium intermediate, amount of waste,the low efficiency and poor mixing in large vessel that leads to undesired byproducts [5–7]. Over past years, an explosion on continuous flow syntheses has appeared in chemical literatures. Compared to traditional batch vessels, flow reactors have many advantages such as better thermal and mass transfer; more accurate control of reaction parameters and ease to implement continuously. Furthermore, safety hazards in handling exothermic reactions associated with explosive intermediates are minimized be- cause they involve a much smaller volume in the reaction train [8–11]. Commonly, the amine dissolved in diluted acid or sometimes organic solvent as one feed stock and sodium ni- trite dissolved in water or/and organic solvent as another feed stock. The obtained conversions of amines and the yields of the products are higher than those of batch reactions with controlling the temperatures at 0–25 °C and the residence time in 10–30 s [12–14]. Like the above practices, amines are dissolved in the acid solutions to form homogeneous solutions to facilitate the feed- ing of amines to the microreactors by pumps. In the conven- tional way of performing the reactions, amount of waste

In this experiment, the acid to amine molar ratio and the sodium nitrite to amine molar ratio are 3:1 and 1.05:1, respectively; the re- action temperature is 9 °C; C(H2SO4) = 6.5 M; V(H2SO4) = 14.4 mL/ min; C(NaNO2) = 6.5 M; V(NaNO2) = 5.04 mL/min. (a) Conversion of amine. (b) Yield of iodobenzene

In this experiment, the acid to amine molar ratio and the sodium nitrite to amine molar ratio are 3.2:1 and 1.05:1, respectively (for M-Me, the acid to amine molar ratio is 3.1:1); the reaction temperature is 4 °C; V(HCl) = 16.64 mL/min; C(NaNO2) = 5.7 M; V(NaNO2) = 5.76 mL/min. (a) Conversion of amine. (b) Yield of iodobenzene

Analysis The flow pattern of the mixed stream was taken as movies by using an inverted microscope (Leica DMi8) equipped with a CCD camera. The GC analysis was carried out on Agilent 7890B equipped with a HP-5 capillary column (30 m × 0.32 mm × 0.25 μm) and a flame ionization detector. The column temperature was started at 60 °C for 1 min, then increased to 280 °C at a rate of 10 °C /min. The temperatures of gasification chamber and detecting chamber were 280 and 290 °C, respectively.

sodium nitrite from 5.7 to 6 M results in the decrease of conver- sion from 99.4 to 98.7%, the yield of o-ethyl iodide decreases from 78.5 to 73.2%. This may be ascribed to rapid decomposi- tion of nitrous acid formed at high sodium nitrite concentration, as we can observe the formation of gas at these conditions and spray of the liquid at the outlet of the reactor. Therefore, the sodium nitrite concentration is better lower than 5.7 M.

values obtained from batch reaction of the same raw mate- rials. For the latter, 2.65 M sodium nitrite and 3.75 M sulfuric acid are used, yielding the yields of iodobenzene and methyl iodobenzene of 80–85% [25]. As for limitations of the current methodology, the amines used as raw material must be highly active liquid aromatic amines in the above practices. Liquid aliphatic amines are also suitable for the current methodology. For example, using the tert-butylamine as raw materials, the conversion is 98.9%, the yield of iodo-substitute compound is 84.7% in the hydrochlo- ric acid system. In the sulfuric acid system, the conversion is 99.3%, the yield is 86.8%, respectively. The solid amines, such as 2-amino-4-cyanotoluene, 2,4-dinitro-6-bromanilin and most heteroaromatic amines, are usually dissolved in acid or added to solvents for continuous reaction. However, when a strong electron withdrawing group (−X,-NO2,-C ≡ N, etc.) is attached to an aromatic amine, its activity is greatly reduced, so that the raw material amine cannot be rapidly converted during the reaction, then it may be easy to form ammonium salt with acids, resulting in the blockage of microchannels.

Effect of the temperature Figure 7 illustrates the effect of the temperature on the reaction. When the temperature is increased from 2 to 4 °C, the conversion of o-ethylaniline increases from 99.8 to 100%, and the yield of o-ethyl io- dide increases from 83.9 to 86.1%. In addition, the system can run smoothly without gas. When the temperature is increased to 8 °C, gas can be observed to bubble out of the collected liquid, while the system runs smoothly. The conversion of o-ethylaniline decreases to 94.6%, and the yield of o-ethyl iodide decreases to77.1%. These possibly result from the increased decomposition and cross-

To investigate whether the designed microreactor can be used for smooth operation of diazotization reaction using various aromatic amines and concentrated acid and sodium nitrite so- lutions, we use aniline, o-methylaniline and m-methylaniline as raw materials, hydrochloric acid as an acidic medium to carry out the reaction. These raw materials form insoluble solids when contacting with concentrated acid. Table 1 sum- marizes the reaction results at optimized conditions. The reac- tions run very smoothly without the occurrence of clogging. High raw material conversions can be obtained, with the yields of the products over 85%. The optimized conditions

Effect of the residence time Figure 5 shows the effect of res- idence time on the reaction. From it we can know that, when the residence time is increased from 7 to 13 s, the conversion of o-ethylaniline increases sharply from 93.1 to 98.3%, and

are slightly different for m-methylaniline, requiring a molar ratio of m-methylaniline to hydrochloric acid of 1:3.1 and a residence time of 15 s. This may be ascribed to much lower activity of the formed m-methylaniline diazonium hydrochlo- ride than the other three diazonium hydrochlorides [20]. Hence, a slightly lower acidity is needed to prevent it from decomposing and forming other side reactions. Since the ac- tivities of m-methylaniline and m-methylaniline diazonium hydrochlorides are much lower than those of several other amines or diazonium hydrochlorides [21, 22], the conversion of the amine and the yield of the corresponding iodobenzene are lower. As the rate of diazotization reaction varies in different acidic media [23], it is necessary to verify the feasibility of the designed microreactor in the diazotization reactions of these raw materials in sulfuric acid. In hydrochloric and sul- furic acid medium, nitrosyl chloride and nitrous anhydride are formed as the active component, respectively. Since the ac- tivity of nitrosyl chloride is higher than that of nitrous anhy- dride [24], we then conduct the experiments at temperatures higher than those in hydrochloric acid. When the temperature is set at 5 °C, the reaction can run smoothly for about 30 s, and then the flow becomes unstable, with obvious observa- tion of solids on the wall. Eventually, clogging occurs. When the temperature is raised to 9 °C, the reaction can run smooth- ly, with stable flow and without the formation of solids. Further increase in the temperature to 12 °C leads to the formation of large amount of gas and tar, indicating decom- position of the diazonium salt. The reactions can all run smoothly at 9 °C when o-methylaniline, m-methylaniline and o-ethylaniline are used as raw materials. After examining the effect of the sodium nitrite concentration, the molar ratio of sodium nitrite to amine, the sulfuric acid concentration, the molar ratio of sulfuric acid to amine, and the residence time, we obtain the optimized reaction results by using aniline, o- methylaniline, m-methylaniline and o-ethylaniline, as raw materials in sulfuric acid, as listed in Table 2. Conversions of amines more than 98% and yields of about 90% can be achieved by using the designed microreactor, higher than the

Continuous operation is arguably the most appropriate method to produce large volumes of a product uniformly, consistently, and reliably. A fully continuous flow process has been described to utilize concentrated acid and sodium nitrite solutions in a in-house designed microreactor, which was carried out by first mixing amine with a sodi- um nitrite aqueous solution in a micromixer to form O/W microdroplets, followed by mixing with mineral acid in a co-axial micromixer. We used aniline, o-methylaniline, m- methylaniline and o-ethylaniline as the raw materials, hy- drochloric acid, and sulfuric acid as the acid medium to conduct the reactions for the formation of iodobenzene. These reactions, in which insoluble solids were formed after mixing the mineral acid with amine, could be oper- ated smoothly at suitable temperatures, without the addi- tion of large amounts of water or the extra solvent. In addition, sodium nitrite aqueous solution with concentra- tion of 5.7 M could be used, with a molar ratio of acid to amine of 3.1–3.2. For comparison, 2.1 M of sodium nitrite had to be used in conventional batch reactions. High raw material conversions over 98% and yields of the iodo- substitute aromatic compounds about 90% could be achieved at 2–9 °C and residence times of less than 20 s. Formation of O/W microdroplets by mixing amine with sodium nitrite is crucial, as the formed solids resulting from the contact between amine and acid can be dispersed in the aqueous phase, resulting in their smooth flow with the main stream and consequent, avoiding clogging of the microchannel. Such design of the microreactor and the

Continuous diazotization of aromatic amines with high acid and sodium nitrite concentrations in microreactors

Effect of the molar ratio of acid to amine Figure 4 shows the effect of the molar ratio of hydrochloric acid to o-ethylaniline on the reaction. When the molar ratio of hydrochloric acid to o-ethylaniline increases from 3.0 to 3.2, the conversion of o- ethylaniline increases from 97.8 to 98.9%, and the yield of o- ethyl iodide increases from 76.3 to 78.5%. Further increase in

the molar ratio of hydrochloric acid to o-ethylaniline increases to 3.4 results in the decrease in the conversion to 97.6%, the yield of o-ethyl iodide decreases to 77.8%. These results indi- cate that the molar ratio of hydrochloric acid to o-ethylaniline of 3.2:1 is suitable to create a strong acidic environment to maintain stability of the diazonium salt.

State Key Laboratory of Materials-Oriented Chemical Engineering and College of Chemical Engineering, Nanjing Tech University, Nanjing 210009, People's Republic of China

