The reaction temperature is a very important parameter that aﬀects the reaction rate, product selectivity and heat release. To optimize the nitration reaction condition, the eﬀect of reaction temperatures on the conversion of 2-EH and selectivity of 2-EHN is investigated. The reaction was performed at the nitric acid to 2-EH molar ratio of 1.26 and water content of 5% in the mixed acid. The results are shown in Fig. 2. As expected, 2-EH conversion increases with either increasing residence time or reaction temperature. This is because higher tem-

CH SO the concentration of sulfuric acid (mol/L) n2-EH the amount of substance of 2-EH (mol) v2-EH the flow rate of 2-EH (ml/min) vmixed acid the flow rate of mixed acid (ml/min) ρ2-EH the density of 2-EH (g/ml) M2-EH the relative molecular mass of 2-EH (g/mol) a activity (mol/L)

ΔG HNO3 the Gibbs free energy of HNO3 (KJ/mol) M the initial concentration ratio of nitric acid to 2-EH x the conversion rate of 2-EH t reaction time (s) kapp the apparent reaction rate constant (L mol−1 s−1) k° the intrinsic rate constant (L mol−1 s−1) n thermodynamic parameter defined in Eq.11 Mc activity coeﬃcient function A pre-exponential factor (L mol−1 s−1) Ea activation energy (J mol−1) R gas constant (J K−1 mol−1) T reaction temperature (K)

safety because of low material hold-up, which has limited damage when hazardous situation happens. Other advantages such as miniaturization and the numbering-up mode can reduce the investment in R & D and commercial application. In accordance with these advantages, our previous work shown that the nitration of 2-EH in microreactors can be eﬀectively enhanced, and the reaction was highly dependent on sulfuric acid concentration and temperature [10]. However, a deep understanding of the reaction with respect to reaction kinetics is rather limited, which is very important for process design, despite the fact that 2-EHN has been commercially produced for long time. Since excellent process control can be obtained in microreactors [19], they also serve as ideal tools for the determination of reaction kinetics [20–23], including apparent and intrinsic kinetics. In this paper, the synthesis of EHN was studied in capillary microreactors. A microchemical system was designed to precisely control the reaction time and reaction temperature. The objective of this work was to determine the reaction kinetics of the nitration of 2- EH. Firstly, the eﬀect of reaction temperature, residence time, HNO3 to 2-EH molar ratio, water content in the mixed acid on nitration process was studied. Based on the experimental results, both the apparent and intrinsic kinetics were calculated with an assumption of homogeneous reaction.

The experimental setup is shown in Fig. 1. 2-EH and mixed acid were delivered separately by metering pumps (America Lab Alliance Series II). The fluids were firstly mixed in a T-mixer with an inner diameter of 1.0 mm (stainless steel), and then reacted in stainless steel capillary with an inner diameter of 0.6 mm. The residence time was

rather serious that rapid temperature rise and generation of gas containing nitrogen oxide may occur. As to the M-ratio, which dose not change the sulfuric acid strength, its eﬀect on the selectivity can be neglected, as shown in Fig. 3(b). Therefore, the nitration should be performed with high M-ratio and low water content. Under optimized condition, both the conversion of 2-EH and selectivity of EHN can exceed 99%.

where kapp is the apparent reaction rate constant, C2-EH and CHNO t 3 are the concentration of 2-EH and nitric acid based on the total volume of mixed fluids, respectively. By substituting the conversion of 2-EH, Eq. (5) is written as

where n2-EH is the amount of substance of 2-EH; v2-EH and vmixedacid are the flow rate for 2-EH and mixed acid, respectively; ρ2-EH denotes the density of 2-EH; M2-EH denotes the relative molecular mass of 2-EH. From Eq. (7), a plot of G against t should be a straight line passing through the origin, and kapp can be determined from the slope. In this work, four temperatures (278, 283, 288 and 293 K) and three mixed acid compositions (the concentration of sulfuric acid at 13.54, 12.95, and 12.36 mol/L) were chosen for kinetic determination. The results are shown in Fig. 4. As can be seen, excellent linear relations are obtained, showing agreement with the second-order assumption. Fig. 5 shows the relationship between kapp and sulfuric concentration of mixed acid at diﬀerent temperatures. It can be seen that kapp increases with the increase of sulfuric acid concentration and reaction temperature.

The nitration process of 2-ethylhexanol (2-EH) with mixed acid was studied in diﬀerent capillary microreactors. The conversion of 2-EH and selectivity to 2-ethylhexyl nitrate (EHN) were investigated by varying reaction temperature, molar ratio of nitrate to 2-EH, residence time and water content in mixed acid. Under optimized conditions, the conversion of 2-EH and selectivity to EHN could be up to 99% in less than 10 seconds, indicating great potential of microreactors in process intensification. Moreover, with an assumption of homogeneous reaction, a kinetic model based on first order kinetics for nitric acid and 2-EH was proposed to determine both the apparent and intrinsic reaction kinetics. By taking into account the activity of solutes that depend on the acidity (Mc), the intrinsic kinetic was obtained, which is independent of the sulfuric acid concentration. The reaction model can well predict the conversion of 2-EH.

perature promotes the reaction rate. In addition, Fig. 2(b) shows that the selectivity of EHN is always larger than 98% at all temperatures, suggesting the side reactions are greatly suppressed due to excellent heat transfer rate. The slight decrease in the selectivity at smaller temperature may result from the higher fluid viscosity that leads to lower mixing.

Experimental and kinetic study of the nitration of 2-ethylhexanol in capillary microreactors

regulated by changing the length of the reaction tube. The feed tube, the mixer and the reaction tube were all immersed in a water bath to ensure a constant reaction temperature. After the reaction was quenched with ice-water mixture, the liquid samples were collected from the organic phase. For each condition, the samples were collected and analyzed for three times.

+ to CHNO t 3 have to be determined. Mc is a function of temperature for fixed acid composition. Its relationship has been proposed by Marziano et al. [38].

addition, the mixed acid is usually fed by dropping into the reactant to avoid hot spot and regional over-nitration [6,7]. Obviously, such conditions induce large amount of coolant and long reaction time, leading to very low eﬃciency. To improve the reaction performance, two main approaches have been developed. One approach is using additives such as urea [8] to prevent side reaction or using large amount of inert solvent [9] to prevent fast heat accumulation. This method, however, increases the energy consumption in refining and acid recycling. The other approach is to develop high eﬃcient reactors such as static reactor and spinning disk. Yan et al. [4] employed a jet reactor to improve the mixing and a large reduction in the acid usage and reaction time was obtained. However, the reaction heat can only be removed by the cooling jacket that large amount of coolant is still needed. The above research results suggest that the current methods are still with low eﬃciency and there is huge need of improvement. Among the emerging novel reactors, microreactors hold great promises for process intensification, especially in fast and highly exothermic reaction [10–13]. With characteristic size in the range of tens to hundreds of microns, microreactors have huge specific surface area, providing both excellent heat and mass transfer rate [14–18]. Therefore, it allows fast mixing and quick heat removal during reaction. For the nitration of 2-EH, the reaction can be conducted at higher temperatures to increase the reaction rate while keeping the process safety. In this case, the usage of acid, as well as coolant, can be dramatically reduced. Moreover, microreactors can improve process

The eﬀects of M-ratio and water content in mixed acid on nitration reaction were investigated at the temperature of 298 K and residence time of 10 s. It can be seen in Fig. 3(a), the conversion of 2-EH increases with increasing of M-ratio. This is reasonable because higher M-ratio renders larger amount of sulfuric and nitric acid both of which are beneficial for the generation of NO2 +, promoting the reaction rate. On the other side, with the decreasing water content, the conversion of 2- EH is found to increase rapidly. Because lower water content in the mixed acid can speed up the rate of protonation of nitric acid, thus making the overall reaction rate increases. Fig. 3(b) shows that the selectivity of EHN decreases with the increase in water content while little eﬀect of M-ratio is observed. It is known that the main side reaction during nitration of 2-EH is the oxidation by the nitric acid. When water content increases, the reduced sulfuric acid strength will decrease the protonation of nitric acid (Eq. (1)) [25,26], thus making nitric acid more oxidative. Meanwhile, the oﬀensive of NO2 + is significantly reduced due to solvation of water. Therefore, the selectiv- ity of EHN decreases dramatically with the increase of water content. If the water content is further increased, the oxidation reaction would be

where k° is the intrinsic reaction rate constant, which only depends on the temperature and is independent of the concentration of sulfuric acid. γ2-EH and γNO2

temperature, whereas the intrinsic reaction rate constant only depends on the reaction temperature. Eventually, the activation energy Ea was determined to be 42.67 kJ/mol.

Before calculation of the intrinsic rate constant k°, Mc and the ratio of CNO2

where n is a thermodynamic parameter. According to Eq. (5) and Eq. (11), the relation between kapp and k° can be obtained:

Conventionally, the reaction is operated in stirred tanks with limited mass and heat transfer rate. In order to prevent the oxidation [4,5] that may result in serious decomposition of 2-EHN, the nitration tempera- ture is kept at low temperatures in the range of −10∼10 °C [6]. In

