intrinsic safety.15–18 The application of microreactors is expected to achieve accurate control of temperature in nitration kinetic study. The accurate control of residence time can be achieved by means of a continuous microflow system.19 For liquid–liquid heterogeneous and fast reactions, the reaction rate may be hindered by mass transfer resistance between phases. The small mass transfer distance and large specific surface area in the microchannel are beneficial to greatly improve the mass transfer performance.20–22 The application of microreactors is expected to eliminate the influence of mass transfer resistance as much as possible on the heterogeneous and fast reactions. Many research studies have suggested that due to the excellent mass transfer performance of microreactors, when the mass transfer rate is

The schematic overview of the homogeneous continuous microflow system is shown in Fig. 1. The homogeneous solution was prepared by dissolving 2-MNT (0.5 g) in H2SO4 with a specific mass fraction (160 g) and stirring for 12 h. The mixed acid was prepared by dissolving a specific concentration of HNO3 in the same mass and mass fraction of H2SO4 solution. The homogeneous solution and the mixed acid were delivered separately with two syringe pumps (Chemyx Fusion 6000, America) to pretreatment coiled capillaries to reach a preset temperature. Next, the two fluids flowed through a micromixer (stainless three-way, an inner diameter of 0.15 mm) to achieve sufficient mixing and the reaction was carried out in the subsequent microchannel reactor (PTFE, an inner diameter of 0.5 mm). The online quenching and sampling modules were connected with the microreactor using a micromixer (stainless three-way, an inner diameter of 0.5 mm). The pretreatment coiled capillaries, micromixers and microchannel reactor were immersed in a temperature- controlled bath (CORIO CD-200F, Julabo, Germany) to achieve a uniform reaction temperature. The variation of residence time was achieved by adjusting the length of the microchannel reactor. The effect of mixing performance on the reaction rate has been fully investigated in our previous

shown in Fig. 13. 92% H2SO4 was selected and the conversion of 2-MNT was investigated at different temperatures. It can be observed that the calculated data fit well with the experimental data under both the conditions of a short residence time and a long residence time. The validity of the model can be confirmed. Therefore, it is credible to predict the reaction performance under different reaction conditions through this kinetic model. By comparing with the result of 2-MNT nitration in the literature, a higher conversion of 2-MNT can be obtained in this work under the same experimental conditions, which shows that the reaction rate is faster with a homogeneous continuous microflow in this work.30 This also proves that the effect of mass transfer resistance between phases on the reaction rate cannot be eliminated completely. Therefore, the determination of the kinetic parameters of the nitration with a homogeneous continuous microflow can be more accurate (Table 4).

In this work, the mass transfer resistance between two liquid phases in the heterogeneous reaction process was completely eliminated by constructing a homogeneous system. And the kinetics of 2-MNT homogeneous nitration were investigated with a continuous microflow. The effects of temperature, molar ratio, residence time, and H2SO4 mass fraction on the conversion of 2-MNT and selectivity to DNT were investigated. The results show that increasing the content of water is conducive to increase the selectivity to 2,6-DNT. Next, the observed reaction rate constants based on HNO3 and NO2 + were obtained, respectively. The observed reaction rate constant based on HNO3 has been proven to be highly dependent on the concentration of H2SO4. The reaction rate increases with increasing H2SO4 mass fraction. However, the increase is limited. When the H2SO4 mass fraction increases to a certain value, the reaction rate decreases with increasing H2SO4 mass fraction. The phenomenon was firstly explained in detail in this work. And to the best of our knowledge, this is the first time to report the maximum observed reaction rate constant corresponding to the H2SO4 mass fraction at different temperatures. Next, a complete kinetic model of 2-MNT nitration was established to describe the reaction performance. The activation energies and the preexponential factors of the mononitration of 2-MNT and the two parallel reactions were obtained, respectively. The activation energy of 2-MNT nitration is 72.358 ± 2.075 kJ mol−1. The activation energy of generating 2,4-DNT is 70.239 ± 1.808 kJ mol−1 and generating 2,6-DNT is 78.298 ± 1.252 kJ mol−1.

Therefore, it is reliable that accurate nitration kinetic parameters can be obtained by a homogeneous nitration reaction in a continuous microflow system. However, accurate 2-MNT nitration kinetics has not been reported so far. In this work, a homogeneously continuous microflow system has been constructed to determine the kinetics of 2-MNT nitration. The accurate control of temperature and residence time can be achieved in this system. The effects of the molar ratio of HNO3 to 2-MNT, temperature, residence time and H2SO4 mass fraction on the conversion of 2-MNT and the selectivity to DNT were investigated in detail in this system. The observed reaction rate constants based on HNO3 and NO2 + were determined, respectively. The variation of the observed reaction rate constant based on HNO3 with the H2SO4 mass fraction at different temperatures has been investigated in detail. And the activation energies, preexponential factors and confidence intervals of the total reaction of 2-MNT nitration and the two parallel reactions were determined, respectively.

The reaction kinetics model has been verified by changing the residence time to predict the conversion of 2-MNT, as

In parallel reactions, the conversion of 2-MNT and the selectivity to DNT are important parameters to characterize the reaction performance. The selectivity is also the key to obtaining the respective reaction rate constants of parallel reactions. Therefore, it is important to investigate the effects of the reaction conditions on the selectivity to DNT. Generally, the conversion and selectivity of nitration are affected by the molar ratio, temperature, residence time and H2SO4 concentration. Therefore, all the above aspects have been investigated to explore their effects on the reaction performance, respectively. The conversion of 2-MNT increased by increasing the molar ratio of HNO3 to 2-MNT (M-ratio), as shown in Fig. 2. This is due to the higher concentration of NO2 + in the mixed acid caused by increasing the concentration of HNO3.31 Fig. 2 also shows that the selectivity to 2,4-DNT decreases by increasing the molar ratio, but little effect is observed. It has been reported in the literature that the content of water in the mixed acid has a strong effect on the selectivity.30 In this work, the mass ratio of H2SO4 to HNO3 is large. With the addition of HNO3, the molar ratio increases, but it has almost no effect on the water content in the mixed acid. Therefore, it is reasonable that the variation of selectivity is not obvious with the change in the molar ratio in this work. In addition, it can be observed that the increase in molar ratio is more conducive to the generation of 2,6-DNT. The appropriate molar ratio is advantageous for controlling the reaction rate. And the further nitrification of the product can be avoided. Fig. 3 shows the effect of temperature on the selectivity to DNT. It can be observed that with the increase of temperature,

where t is the reaction residence time and V is the volume of the microchannel. Qh and Qm are the volume flow rates of the homogeneous solution and mixed acid, respectively.

X2-MNT Conversion of o-nitrotoluene, % c2-MNT Concentration of o-nitrotoluene in the sample, mol L−1

where k1 is the observed second-order reaction rate constant based on HNO3, c2-MNT and cHNO3 are the concentrations of 2-MNT and HNO3, respectively. The reaction rate equation can be transformed in terms of the initial concentration and conversion of 2-MNT as eqn (6) and (7):

reactions is not obvious, which can be confirmed by their respective activation energy data. And the result will be discussed in section 3.3. The effect of temperature on the observed reaction rate can be characterized by the variation of conversion with temperature, as shown in Fig. 4. The results show that a higher conversion can be obtained under the same residence time as the temperature increases, indicating that the reaction rate will increase by increasing the temperature. In addition, the variation of conversion is obvious when the temperature is increased by just 5 °C. This also indicates that the precise control of temperature is necessary to obtain accurate kinetic parameters for such a fast and highly exothermic reaction. When the 2-MNT conversion is low, the concentration of HNO3 did not decrease obviously and can be regarded as a constant. In this case, according to the reaction rate equation, the conversion of 2-MNT will increase linearly with the increase of residence time. This is consistent with the result shown in Fig. 4. Many studies have proven that the reaction rate of nitration is affected by the concentration of H2SO4.23–25,27

where X2-MNT is the conversion of 2-MNT and c is the molar concentration of the substances in the sample. The selectivity to DNT was calculated by the following equations:

residence time (t) should be a straight line passing through the origin. Next, k1 can be calculated from the slope. The variation of X2-MNT with t at different temperatures (10, 15, 20 and 25 °C) and H2SO4 mass fractions (88, 90, 92 and 94%) is

Therefore, the content of water in the reaction system and the temperature are important parameters that have a great effect on the selectivity to DNT.

2-MNT and M ¼ c0 HNO3=c0 2‐MNT. Based on the relationship between the reaction rate and residence time, the reaction rate equation can be transformed into eqn (8):

the observed reaction rate decreases. This is the first time to report the maximum observed reaction rate constant corresponding to the H2SO4 mass fraction at different temperatures in this work. Compared to

H2SO4 and the content of water in the mixed acid have a great influence on the generation of NO2 +.31–34 High concentration of H2SO4 and low content of water are conducive to the generation of NO2 +.35 In this work, the conclusion that the reaction rate increases with increasing H2SO4 concentration is also achieved and shown in Fig. 4. When the mass fraction of H2SO4 was increased from 88% to 92%, under the same conditions, a higher conversion was obtained. However, the increase of the reaction rate with H2SO4 concentration is limited. When the mass fraction of H2SO4 increases to 94%, the conversion is lower than that at 92% under the same conditions. And the phenomenon will be discussed in detail in section 3.4. The effect of H2SO4 mass fraction on the selectivity of DNT also contributed to the difference of the content of water. The result is shown in Fig. 5. It can be observed that the selectivity of 2,6-DNT decreases with increasing H2SO4 mass fraction at different temperatures. This proves that the increase of the content of water is more conducive to the generation of 2,6-DNT. It is consistent with the conclusion reported in the literature.30

phenol,11–13 etc. However, due to the characteristics of fast, highly exothermic and liquid–liquid heterogeneous reactions, in a traditional nitrification reactor, it is difficult to achieve accurate control of the reaction conditions such as temperature, residence time and uniform distribution of concentration.14 The accurate kinetic study of aromatic nitration has been hindered. In recent years, microreactors have attracted considerable attention due to their excellent mass and heat transfer performance, rapid mixing rate, and the characteristic of

An ultra-performance liquid chromatograph (Waters, ACQUITY UPLC I-CLASS System, column: PFP column, 1.8 μm, 3 mm × 50 mm, America, mobile phase: VH2O/VMeOH = 0.65/0.35, flow rate: 0.2 mL min−1) with an ultraviolet detector was used to analyze the sample contents and nitrobenzene was used as an internal standard. All these experiments were repeated at least three times to determine the reproducibility. The conversion of 2-MNT was calculated by the following equation: