reduced due to the fast heat and mass transfers [13]. In our case the objective for the production of SPIONs was to lower the reaction times to minutes, rather than the timescale of hours required in batch type reactors [6,7]. However, the blockage of microchannels can be a major concern. This phenomenon is caused either by NP agglomeration and sedimentation at the low linear rates usually employed in micro- reactors, or by a preferential heterogeneous nucleation in the wall surfaces of microchannels. To study this problem two single-plate mi- croreactors were assembled in series to better control the nucleation and growth stages (Figs. 1-c and 2): 1) Nucleation microreactor and 2) Growth microreactor. We found that if the tm value of the microreactor in which growth takes place were larger than 27.4 s, the SPIONs pro- duction was not stable and the microfluidic system blocked after a time lapse of several minutes. The main microchannel fouling was occurring at the curved channel sections, where the slow flow rates (< 300 μL/ min) and low linear velocities promote the sedimentation of aggregates that eventually block the microchannel. To circumvent this problem tm was decreased by increasing the reagent flow rates. Fig. 2 illustrates the SPIONs produced at diﬀerent tm values: 9.6 s, 19.2 s and 27.4 s. A black and stable colloid was obtained in all tested conditions, assuring the

SPIONs [14,15,18] as well as in the synthesis of other nanomaterials [11,25]. However, droplet-flow reactors involve the formation of the NPs in aqueous droplets within an oil-based carrier phase. The oil phase and the surfactants used to control droplet size must be subsequently separated from the formed nanoparticles [19], which is not always possible, in addition to the economic cost of separation. The microfluidic system composed of two microreactors assembled in series with two stacked plates was selected to investigate the prop- erties of the SPIONs produced at tm higher than 27.4 s. Fig. 5-a depicts the TEM images and particle size distribution of SPIONs produce with tm of 38.4 s (Flow rate = 500 μL/min). The production of SPIONs at these conditions was stable and no microchannel blockage was ob- served. Spiral microchannels exhibit transverse Dean flows due to the centrifugal forces [26]. These centrifugal eﬀects are enhanced at high values of Re number (Re > 100) [27] and induce the formation of counter-rotating vortices that promote the mixing and reduce the pos- sibility of aggregate sedimentation, and then microchannel blockage. Considering that the Re value was increased up to 150 by stacking two plates in the microreactor, it can be argued that both a flow rate larger than 500 μL/min and two plates are required to enable a con- tinuous production of SPIONS with tm > 27.4 s. However, an increase of tm above 38.4 s also resulted in the microfluidic channels blockage and therefore an increase in the number of stacked plates together with larger flow rates would be required to avoid the microchannel blockage. The mean particle size achieved with tm = 38.4 s, 3.8 ± 0.8 nm, is the same as that obtained at tm of 27.4 s (Fig. 5-b). The mean nanoparticle size was comparable to that observed by Simmons et al. (3.6 ± 1 nm) [19], Frenz et al. (4.0 ± 1 nm) [14] and Kumar et al. (3.6 ± 0.8 nm) [15] and improved the size distribution yielded in a batch – type reactor (5.0 ± 2 nm) [7]. XRD spectra also confirmed the presence of pure magnetite nanocrystals with a preferential growth

SPIONs have been synthesized for the first time in a continuous flow using a high temperature decomposition method. This method enables the dispersion in water of produced SPIONs, as well as eases their use in biomedical applications because TEG is an organic solvent with reduced toxicity. In spite of the high temperatures used (280 °C) the micro- reactor system can operate for prolonged periods without microchannel plugging. The flexible design allows to increase the production rate by coupling microreactors with stacked plates. In first-stage microreactors, nucleation takes place by decomposition of the Fe precursor at 180 °C. In the second microreactor, the fast growth of nuclei occurred at 280 °C and monodisperse SPIONs were produced with a yield as high as 86.5%, high crystallinity, high purity (100% magnetite) and magnetization, with total residence times of 76 s or lower.

The experimental system consists of two consecutive stainless steel microreactors. The first microreactor was heated at 180 °C, while the second one was heated at 280 °C. This configuration is intended to emulate the batch-synthesis procedure reported by Cai et al. [6], where the batch reactor was sequentially heated at 180 °C and 280 °C for 30 min in each heating stage. The microreactor plates were similar to those used by Jensen et al. [20,21] based on metal plates, but the design was adapted for the specific needs of this process, as described below. The microreactor consists of a stainless steel (AISI 316) plate (88 mm × 50 mm × 0.5 mm) patterned with two diﬀerent zones (Fig. 1-a, b): 1) Mixing zone, using a meandering microchannel to promote a fast passive mixing [22] and 2) Reaction zone, a spiral mi- crochannel that minimizes the fouling process during particle growth [22]. The plates were fabricated using a chemical etching procedure developed by Exella (Exella Europe SRL—www.exella.es), (Fig. 1-b). The microchannels were 370 μm wide, with a depth of 150 μm being the reactor volume of 160 μL. The plate had three fluid inlet ports and one outlet port. The plate was compressed in an aluminum block and contacted with high-tem- perature resistant polymeric gaskets (TEADIT® NA1122), (Fig. 1-f). The plates were assembled with diﬀerent configurations to optimize the nanocrystallization reaction and to control the particle size distribution: 1) Individual (Fig. 1-d), 2) In series to separate the nucleation and growth stages (Fig. 1-c) and 3) Stacking several plates to increase the microreactor volume and to increase the SPIONs productivity (Fig. 1-e). There were two options to assemble the stacked plates: 1) In parallel by splitting the inlet flow and 2) In series, where the inlet flow is not split. Both options obey the same value of tm (residence time, Eq. (1)), but we selected the assembled of plates in series to increase the linear velocity and to prevent microchannel blockage.

reproducibility, and low reagent consumption during optimization [11]. In addition, the problems posed by fast kinetically-controlled re- actions can be overcome thanks to: 1) the small reaction volumes in- volved, 2) the high surface to volume ratio of microchannels and 3) the high heat and mass transfer rates. Seminal work in polymer-based [14–18], and glass-based microreactors [19], has clearly shown the benefits of using microfluidic reactors to produce magnetic nano- particles. However, these synthesis procedures were carried out at low temperatures (< 90 °C) following the co-precipitation method. Con- sidering that crystallinity and then, magnetization, are improved by a higher synthesis temperature [7] and that co-precipitation is not as precise in terms of size control as the thermal decomposition technique, the aim of this work is the development of an scalable and reproducible procedure capable to produce SPIONs continuously at high tempera- tures (> 200 °C) using the thermal decomposition polyol-based process. To this end, we have designed a microfluidic platform based on mi- cropatterned plates to achieve excellent control in the continuous production of SPIONs from the thermal decomposition of Fe iron(III) acetylacetonate [Fe(acac)3].

Fig. 1. a) Scheme of the micropatterned plate and the location of the mixing and reaction zones; b) Stainless-steel micropatterned plate used in this work; A variety of configurations to assemble the micropatterned plates: c) Plates assembled in series to achieve independent control of nucleation and growth stages, d) Single plate where nucleation and growth take place simultaneously and e) Assembly of stacked plates in series to increase the microreactor volume and the productivity; f) Assembly of the microreactor: heating block, polymer gaskets and micropatterned plate; g) Heating cartridges housings in the heating block; h) Microfluidic system consisting of two microreactors assembled in series to operate at 180 °C and 280 °C, respectively.

Fig. 3. Production of SPIONs with a single microreactor with one plate at 280 °C and tm = 27.4: a) Scheme of stream distribution; b) Representative TEM images, c) Particle size distribution histograms and d) XRD patterns of SPIONs. Particle size histograms were plotted after measuring at least 150 particles per sample. Magnetite Standard (Joint Committee on Powder Diﬀraction Standards – JCPDS card number 89-0691).

Fig. 4 depicts the TEM images of SPIONs produced with two stacked plates per microreactor. It can be observed that the morphology of re- sulted SPIONs is similar to those produced with single-plate units. The mean particle size and standard deviation could be considered similar at tm = 27.4 s whether obtained with 1 or 2 plates, with mean particle sizes of 3.5 ± 0.8 and 3.8 ± 0.8 nm, respectively. However, the ana- lysis of TEM images of SPIONs produced at tm = 19.2 s resulted in a slightly broader particle size distribution when 2 plates (3.9 ± 0.9 nm) where used instead of 1 (3.4 ± 0.6 nm), Fig. 4. This diﬀerence could be the result of the increase of the axial dispersion coeﬃcient as the flow rate is increased, broadening the reactor residence time distribution [24,25]. This is the main reason why droplet-flow reactors, where ve- locity dispersion is eliminated, have been considered to produce

