reduced due to the fast heat and mass transfers [13]. In our case the objective for the production of SPIONs was to lower the reaction times to minutes, rather than the timescale of hours required in batch type reactors [6,7]. However, the blockage of microchannels can be a major concern. This phenomenon is caused either by NP agglomeration and sedimentation at the low linear rates usually employe

SPIONs [14,15,18] as well as in the synthesis of other nanomaterials [11,25]. However, droplet-flow reactors involve the formation of the NPs in aqueous droplets within an oil-based carrier phase. The oil phase and the surfactants used to control droplet size must be subsequently separated from the formed nanoparticles [19], which is not always possible, in addition to the economic cost of separat

SPIONs have been synthesized for the first time in a continuous flow using a high temperature decomposition method. This method enables the dispersion in water of produced SPIONs, as well as eases their use in biomedical applications because TEG is an organic solvent with reduced toxicity. In spite of the high temperatures used (280 °C) the micro- reactor system can operate for prolonged periods w

Summary: The paragraph describes the development of a flow-chemistry process for synthesizing superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (SPIONs) using two consecutive stainless steel microreactors with different heating stages. Key reactants include precursors and solvent, while catalyst is not mentioned. The products are SPIONs with controlled size distribution. Reactor details include the use of plates patterned with mixing and reaction zones, and assemblies such as individual, series, or stacked plates in either parallel or serial configurations. Critical conditions involve flow rates, residence time (tm), temperature (180 °C for first reactor, 280 °C for second reactor), and pressure (not mentioned). Outcomes include conversion, yield, and selectivity of SPIONs.

reproducibility, and low reagent consumption during optimization [11]. In addition, the problems posed by fast kinetically-controlled re- actions can be overcome thanks to: 1) the small reaction volumes in- volved, 2) the high surface to volume ratio of microchannels and 3) the high heat and mass transfer rates. Seminal work in polymer-based [14–18], and glass-based microreactors [19], has clearly

Fig. 1. a) Scheme of the micropatterned plate and the location of the mixing and reaction zones; b) Stainless-steel micropatterned plate used in this work; A variety of configurations to assemble the micropatterned plates: c) Plates assembled in series to achieve independent control of nucleation and growth stages, d) Single plate where nucleation and growth take place simultaneously and e) Assemb

Summary: The paragraph describes the production of SPIONs using a microreactor with one plate at 280 °C and tm = 27.4. The reaction type is not specified, but it involves the synthesis of magnetic nanoparticles (SPIONs) from iron oxide precursors. Key reactants/solvent/catalyst are not mentioned in this context. The product is magnetite nanoparticles (SPIONs). The reactor details include a single microreactor with one plate and the temperature of 280 °C. The critical conditions are not specified, but it is mentioned that the reaction was carried out at tm = 27.4. The outcome of the process is represented by representative TEM images, particle size distribution histograms, and XRD patterns of SPIONs, which demonstrate successful synthesis of magnetite nanoparticles with desired properties.

Fig. 4 depicts the TEM images of SPIONs produced with two stacked plates per microreactor. It can be observed that the morphology of re- sulted SPIONs is similar to those produced with single-plate units. The mean particle size and standard deviation could be considered similar at tm = 27.4 s whether obtained with 1 or 2 plates, with mean particle sizes of 3.5 ± 0.8 and 3.8 ± 0.8 nm, respectively.

