At a higher flow rate of 0.7 mL/min (Figure 2), a similar trend is observed with regard to the effect of pH on the reaction conversion. Similarly, a reaction temperature of 25 °C was pre- dicted to provide optimum conversion (75%). At this reaction temperature (25 °C), the predicted reaction conversion at this flow rate, is slightly lower (75%) compared to that predicted at a flow rate of 0.03 mL/min (80%). It was then concluded that the flow rate of the reactants in this experimental domain had no significant effect on the reaction response. For information, this flow rate range covers a residence time of 0.37 to 0.86 minutes.

An increase in the flow rate from 0.03–0.7 mL/min at a con- stant pH of 5.66 causes a 2% drop in predicted conversion whereas an increase in the reaction temperature from 0–50 °C at flow rates of 0.03, 0.33 and 0.7 mL/min at constant pH 5.66 is shown to lead to a less than 5% drop in the predicted conver- sion. It was thereafter concluded that in this experimental domain, the reaction temperature had no significant effect on the reaction conversion. For both reactions investigated thus far, it was found that the flow rate of the reactants in the chosen ex- perimental domain had little or no significant effect on the reac- tion conversion.

The flow rate of the reactants (diazotized primary amine and coupler) was also investigated as mentioned earlier on. As is shown in Figure 4, based on the predicted conversion, there is no difference in carrying out the reaction at either 0.03 mL/min or 0.7 mL/min.

on this response (pH^2, p < 0.005). Conversely, within this ex- perimental domain, there is evidence (Flow rate, p = 0.116) that shows that the flow rate of the reactants has a negligible effect on the reaction conversion. Looking at the p-value associated with the estimated coefficient (b) of the reaction temperature (temperature, p = 0.012), there is a slight indication of its signif- icance on the reaction conversion.

It was found that the synthesis of these compounds in a simple set up comprising of PTFE tubing (i.d. 1.5 mm) provided comparable conversions to those attained in the LTF-MS microreactors despite the geometrical specifications of the two reactor systems being quite different. It should also be noted that the PTFE tubing is much cheaper than the glass LTF-MS and at the internal diameter of the PTFE tubing used there were no occurrences of blockages witnessed due to precipitate forma- tion. This is particularly important since the amount of solvent used in the reactions can be kept at a bare minimum. Despite the fact that the geometrical specifications of the two reactor systems (LTF-MS microreactors and PTFE tubing) were quite different, the drop in conversion is not massive and can be circumvented by increasing the residence time in order to achieve even better conversions.

In the plot (Figure 1), it is seen that at a flow rate of 0.03 mL/min, the pH has a non-linear relationship with the pre- dicted conversion of the coupler. In addition, the predicted conversion increases with an increase in reaction pH in this ex- perimental domain. The optimum pH that would provide the best conversion was predicted to be approximately 8.5 and the

coupling component solutions) were fed to an LTF-MS (Volume: 0.2 mL, channel size: 1 mm, geometry: 115 × 60 × 6 mm) microreactor plate (Figure 6). The microreactor plate was dipped into a temperature control bath and delivery of the reactants to the plates was enabled by two Chemyx fusion 100 classic syringe pumps.

The continuous flow scaled-up synthesis of 2-naphtholic, phenolic and similar azo compounds in LTF-MS microreactors In the synthesis of azo compounds, there is usually formation of a precipitate, which renders this reaction problematic in microreactors due to blockages. The geometrical specifications of the microchannel are very important, so much that these dictate the concentration of the reagents used for the reaction, amount of solvent added to facilitate quick dissolution of partic- ulates as they are formed as well as the output of the reaction, i.e., conversion, yield and or even selectivity. The scaled-up synthesis of these compounds in PTFE tubing of 1.5 mm internal diameter is herein reported. The experimental set up of the scaled-up synthesis is shown in the experimental section (Figure 8). A comparison of the two microreactor systems, i.e., LTF-MS and the PTFE tubing microreactor systems is presented in Table 8. The reactions were conducted at appro- priate flow rates so as to maintain the same residence time used in the LTF-MS microreactors.

Scaled up microreactor diameter set up: PTFE tubing i.d. 1.5 mm Keeping the residence time established in the optimization reac- tions constant, the scale up was carried out in PTFE tubing (i.d.

Data analysis The total volume of samples collected (tvscollected) was calcu- lated by multiplying the total flow rate of the reactant solutions (tfrABC) by the total sample collection time (tcollection). The reaction time was calculated by dividing the total reaction space volume i.e. the total volume of the two LTF-MS plates, the PTFE tubing used to join the two mixers and also that leading to the final outlet: the point of sample collection by the total flow rate of reactant solutions (tfrABC). For purposes of data analysis, all flow rates were converted to liters/minute.

Although various groups have investigated similar reactions in microreactors, to the best of our knowledge, there is no detailed study combining the effect of pH, temperature and flow rate on the azo coupling reaction. In addition, industry always ques- tions why reactions are done in micro structured reactors rather than simple tubular reactors. As such, we extended this investi- gation to study the optimized conditions obtained within the LTF microreactors within PTFE tubing (i.d. 1.5 mm) in order to scale up the synthesis and to see if the size effect had any major implication on the reaction performance.

Microreactor set up; continuous flow synthesis of azo compounds Using three (5 mL) SGE glass syringes and PTFE tubing (i.d. 0.5 mm, length: 340.2 mm connecting from the first reactor plate to the second reactor plate and 380.7 mm connecting from the second reactor plate to the sample collection bottle) reactant solutions A (amine + HCl solution), B (sodium nitrite solution) and C (coupler) were fed into two LTF-MS microreactor plates (reactor volume: 0.2 mL, channel size: 1 mm, geometry: 115 × 60 × 6 mm) joined by PTFE tubing (i.d. 0.5 mm). The delivery of the reactants was enabled by three Chemyx Fusion 100 classic syringe pumps as shown in Figure 7. The reaction tem- perature for the diazotization (0 °C) and azo coupling (25 °C) reactions was maintained with the aid of an ice and water bath respectively.

In the regression summary of the statistical data analysis (Table 2) of the observed data, it is seen from the p-values (0.067 and 0.084) associated with the estimated coefficients (b) of flow rate and temperature respectively, that these two reac- tion parameters seem not to have a significant effect on the

The effect of reaction parameters i.e. flow rate, temperature and pH on azo coupling reactions in the synthesis of azo com- pounds under acidic and alkaline reaction conditions in LTF- MS microreactors however, was successfully demonstrated. We therefore went ahead to fully make good use of the benefits that microreactor technology offers to organic syntheses such as this one by performing both reaction steps in continuous flow reac- tors.

Abstract In this paper, a micro-fluidic optimized process for the continuous flow synthesis of azo compounds is presented. The continuous flow synthesis of Sudan II azo dye was used as a model reaction for the study. At found optimal azo coupling reaction temperature and pH an investigation of the optimum flow rates of the reactants for the diazotization and azo coupling reactions in Little Things Factory-MS microreactors was performed. A conversion of 98% was achieved in approximately 2.4 minutes and a small library of azo compounds was thus generated under these reaction conditions from couplers with aminated or hydroxylated aromatic systems. The scaled up synthesis of these compounds in PTFE tubing (i.d. 1.5 mm) was also investigated, where good reaction conversions ranging between 66–91% were attained.

independent variables (see Supporting Information File 1). On further statistical analysis of this data, it was found that there is some evidence that supports the notion that the flow rate of the

Sample analysis Off-line reversed phase HPLC using a Phenomenex Luna 5 µ C18 100 A (250 × 4.60 mm × 5 microns) column under the following conditions; flow rate: 1.2 mL/min, mobile phase (acetonitrile 0.1% formic acid (75:25)) equipped with a vari- able wavelength detector was used for sample analysis. The external standard calibration HPLC method was used to quan- tify the amount of coupler utilized in the reaction. The wave- length used for quantification of the 2-naphthol was 349 nm.

aAmine-flow rate of HCl + amine (2,4-dimethylaniline) solution, bnitrite- flow rate of sodium nitrite solution, ccoupler-flow rate of coupler (2-naphthol) solution. dcenter point.

The pigment synthesized in a micro-mixer (25 µm channel width) at a flow rate of 30 mL/min had smaller pigment size distribution compared to the batch synthesized pigment. The fast mixing in the micro-mixer was noted to be responsible for

aAmine-flow rate of HCl + amine (2,4-dimethylaniline) solution, bnitrite- flow rate of sodium nitrite solution, ccoupler-flow rate of coupler (2-naphthol) solution.