Chemical Engineering Science 56 (2001) 1265}1273

Experimental and theoretical investigation of H oxidation in a high-temperature catalytic microreactor

GoK tz Veser*

Chemical Reaction Engineering Group, Max-Planck-Institut fu( r Kohlenforschung, 45470 Mu( lheim/Ruhr, Germany

Abstract

A sample and #exible quartz-glass-based microreactor design is presented for high-temperature catalytic gas-phase reactions. The reactor was tested with the platinum-catalysed hydrogen oxidation reaction, withstanding extremely high reaction temperatures in excess of 10003C without any signs of degradation. Experimental results are compared to those from a previous, alternative microreactor con"guration, indicating substantially reduced heat losses. No homogeneous #ames or explosions are observed under any reaction conditions, indicating that homogeneous reactions can be very e!ectively suppressed in a microreaction channel. A theoretical analysis of the explosion limits in the homogeneous H/O-system con"rms that reactors with characteristic dimensions in the sub-millimetre range become intrinsically safe at ambient pressure conditions. Furthermore, the analysis shows that the suppression of the explosive reaction behaviour in these microreactors can be traced to a kinetic quenching of the radical chain mechanism rather than a thermal quenching due to increased heat transfer rates.  2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.

Keywords: Microreactor design; Catalytic high-temperature reactions; Hydrogen oxidation; Explosion limits

1. Introduction

e$ciency of these mechanisms which often limit the overall reactor e$ciency in conventional chemical reactors. However, a further potential advantage of this large surface-to-volume ratio has found less attention so far: since free surfaces tend to bind radical species which are crucial as chain carriers for (particularly explosive) gas-phase reactions, the large surface-to-volume ratio could lead to an e!ective suppression of homogeneous gas-phase reactions. This would obviously have a couple of very interesting consequences both for applied processes as well as basic research: the suppression of (explosive) gas-phase reactions would result in an inherent safety for processes which handle potentially #ammable gas mixtures, and it would also allow to study the reaction mechanisms and kinetics of high- temperature catalytic gas-phase reactions without in#uences by parallel homogeneous reactions, i.e. it would become possible to clearly separate homogeneous and heterogeneous contributions to the overall reaction behaviour. We had previously reported on a simple and #exible microreactor, in which we studied the Pt-catalysed H#O reaction and could show that it is indeed pos- sible to conduct this highly explosive reaction without the occurrence of #ames or explosions in a microreactor

Microreactors, i.e. chemical reactors with typical di- mensions (such as reactor diameter) in the sub-millimetre range, have become the topic of intense research due to the many interesting novel possibilities they o!er. The potential of microreactors in the development of novel chemical process routes has been stressed repeatedly and in some cases also demonstrated in the past few years (Lerou et al., 1996; Srinivasan et al., 1997; Ehrfeld, 1997; Abraham et al., 1998; Zech & HoK nicke, 1998; HoK nicke, 1999). In most cases the interest in microreactors re- volved around their small thermal inertia, which allows for a very direct control of the reaction temperature, their inherent safety due to the very small reactor volume and well-controllable reaction conditions, and their small overall dimensions which makes them ideal for applica- tions where space requirements are critical (such as in mobile devices). Furthermore, the large surface-to-vol- ume ratio typical for microreactors has been stressed often, since this results in a very short path for heat and mass transport, leading to a drastic increase in the

* Corresponding author. Tel.: #49-208-306-2455; fax: #49-208- 306-2995. E-mail address: veser@mpi-muelheim.mpg.de (GoK tz Veser).

con"guration (Veser, Friedrich, Freygang, & Zengerle, 1998; Veser, Friedrich, Freygang, & Zengerle, 1999). In the present contribution, we extend this study by presen- ting a di!erent, even simpler microreactor which allows us to extend the temperature range for catalytic studies towards even higher temperatures (¹'10003C), and complement the experimental studies by results from a kinetic analysis of the homogeneous H#O reaction which demonstrates that by making the transition from millimetre-sized reaction channels to sub-millimetre di- mensions, this normally highly explosive reaction is ren- dered intrinsically safe.

Fig. 2. Ceramic reactor housing (white) with quartz-glass tubular microreactor (visible through centre hole). Dimensions of the reactor housing are: 40 mm length, 22 mm diameter, the dimensions of the quartz-glass tube are: 20 mm length, 6 mm outer diameter, 0.6 mm inner diameter.

2. Experiments

reactive conditions, being chemically inert in a wide of reactive environments and withstanding temperatures of up to 12503C. Furthermore, the use of glass walls allows for a convenient optical inspection of the reaction chan- nel during the reaction. The quartz-glass tubes were set into a ceramic housing made from a machine-workable special ceramic which withstands temperatures of up to 11503C after thermal annealing. Two separate feed holes on the reactor inlet side of the ceramic allow to feed two reactant streams separately and premix them by perpendicular impinge- ment right at the microchannel entrance. This con"gura- tion assures that homogeneous reactions between the reactants in the inlet tubing can be avoided. The reaction gases are fed separately to the ceramic housing through two steel tubings which are connected to the peripherals via standard Swagelock-type connectors, thus allowing for an easy connection to standard laboratory equip- ment. As in the previous reactor design, the catalyst was set into the microchannels in the form of a platinum wire. This con"guration not only allows for an easy exchange and inspection of the catalyst after the reaction, but it also reduces the problems typically encountered in high- temperature environments when thin "lm-coated reactor walls are used (Srinivasan et al., 1997). The wire extends beyond the reactor length and is sealed through graphite sealing at both reactor ends. This allows for an easy, direct electrical contact with the catalytic wire for heating purposes during the ignition of the reaction. However, the graphite sealings in their current form only withstand a gas #ow of up to +1 standard liters per minute (slpm), above which some gas leakage occurs. Here, further opti- misation of the reactor design is necessary.

2.1. Reactor design

The reactor used in the present investigation is a fur- ther development of a previous microreactor with the intent to increase the applicability of the reactor towards even higher temperatures, thus rendering the study of high-temperature catalytic reactions possible. In doing this, the major design guidelines of the previous reactor development were maintained which were: an easy hand- ling of the reactor set-up; suitability of the microreactor for a wide range of reactions and reaction conditions; reusability of the reactor units; and easy availability or cheap fabrication techniques for the reactor parts. While the previous reactor consisted of etched silicon chips which were housed in a sparc-eroded stainless-steel housing (Fig. 1), the new reactor design was based on commercially available quartz-glass tubes with an inner diameter of 600 m, an outer diameter of 6 mm and a length of 20 mm (Fig. 2). The new design is thus even cheaper and simpler than the previous one. This simpli- city is, however, paid o! by a reduced #exibility, since the use of ready-made quartz-glass tubes limits the reactor con"guration currently to straight, parallel channels. Quartz-glass was chosen as base material since macro- scopic quartz-glass tubular reactors have su$ciently demonstrated their applicability to high-temperature

2.2. Experimental results

To experimentally test our new reactor con"gu- ration, we again used the H#O reaction (H#0.5 OPHO). This reaction forms one of the most simple

Fig. 1. Previous microreactor design: closed stainless-steel reactor housing (left) and open reactor with silicon-etched microchannels and catalytic wire (right) (adapted from Veser et al., 1998).

combustion reactions and has been studied in much detail for many decades (Lewis & von Elbe, 1987). The reaction proceeds extremely fast, both homogeneously in the gas phase and heterogeneously catalysed by plati- num. It is furthermore characterised by a particularly wide range of explosive mixtures (about 3}75 vol% in air) and very-high #ame velocities and violent explosions (Lewis & von Elbe, 1987). Due to these features as well as the very simple stoichiometry of the reaction which pro- ceeds along a single summary reaction path to yield water as the only reaction product, this reaction has been found in our previous studies to be a good candidate to test a microreactor set-up under high-temperature condi- tions. Beyond the pragmatic considerations for a laborat- ory experiment, the reaction also has some practical interest as a very e$cient energy source due to its strong exothermicity (H+!241 kJ/mol). However, the wide explosion limits restrict the practical use of this reaction to special applications for which no adequate alternative fuel is available (such as in rocket propulsion), or to the use of highly diluted hydrogen/air mixtures outside the #ammability region. Obviously, the reaction could be put to much wider use if a safe process could be conducted in a microreactor con"guration. In the experiment, a catalytic Pt-wire (diameter 0.15 mm, purity 99.99%) was put into the reaction chan- nel, leaving an e!ective free annulus with 225 m width for the reactive gas #ow. The reaction gases H, O and N were fed through standard mass #ow controllers and a thermocouple measured the temperature of the e%uent gases right at the exit of the microchannel. For ignition of the reaction, synthetic air was typically introduced at a #ow rate of about 0.1 slpm, and then H was added to the feed gas stream. The catalytic wires were then preheated resistively in 5% H in air to about 1003C before ignition of the catalytic reaction could be observed. The steady-state temperatures of the e%uent gases for various experimental conditions are shown in Figs. 3 and 4. Exit gas temperatures are shown for increasing H content in 0.5 slpm synthetic air (base case, diamonds in both "gures) and for reduced nitrogen dilution (0.1 slpm O with 0.2 slpm N, Fig. 3, circles) as well as higher total #ow rates (0.7 slpm synthetic air, Fig. 4, circles) The H content is given as the so-called `equiva- lence ratioa , which is de"ned as the actual H/O ratio divided by the H/O ratio at the stoichiometric point for total oxidation (which yields a common x-axis for the di!erent experimental conditions for easier comparison). As expected, a steep temperature rise is observed with increasing H content due to increasing O conversion (Veser et al., 1998). A maximum is reached near stoichiometric conditions which varies from +8503C for the base case of 0.5 slpm air to more than 11503C for lower nitrogen dilutions, approaching the limiting

Fig. 3. Gas exit temperatures in the quartz-glass catalytic microreactor in the H#O reaction. Shown are the exit temperatures with varying H content in 0.5 slpm synthetic air (diamonds) and for oxygen en- riched air (0.1 slpm O#0.2 slpm N, circles).

Fig. 4. Gas exit temperatures in the quartz-glass catalytic microreactor in the H#O reaction. Shown are the exit temperatures with varying H content in 0.5 slpm synthetic air (diamonds) and in 0.75 slpm synthetic air (i.e., 40% higher total #ow rate, circles).

temperatures of the ceramic housing. The maximum tem- peratures increase with decreasing nitrogen dilution (Fig. 3) as well as with increasing total #ow rate (Fig. 4). The latter is indicative of substantial heat losses form the microreaction channel, since with increasing #ow rate (i.e., decreasing residence time) more heat is convectively transported towards the reactor exit, thus reducing the heat losses. These heat losses can also be recognised in Fig. 3, where the reduction of N dilution leads to slight- ly lower exit gas temperatures in the initial part of the temperature curve since the increased heat losses due to longer residence times overcompensate the large adiabatic temperature rise. However, a direct comparison with results from our previous reactor con"guration (which had been limited to temperatures below +8003C due to temperature lim- itations of the steel housing) show that heat losses are strongly reduced in the present reactor con"guration: as

tor length. It seems remarkable that residence times as short as 50 s could be reached in these simple experi- ments. Obviously, through minor modi"cations of the reactor channel diameter and/or the catalyst wire thick- ness this number could be further reduced, so that it might become possible to study the spatial reaction pro- gress in a typical high-temperature catalytic reaction by spreading out the reaction along a microreaction chan- nel. This indicates again some of the great potential microreactors hold as valuable tools for the study of the mechanisms and kinetics of catalytic reactions as well as the general behaviour of catalytic reactors. Overall, the experiments reveal a reaction behaviour which shows no qualitative di!erences between the two microreactor con"gurations, and no obvious deviation from the expected behaviour in a conventional `macro- scopica catalytic "xed-bed reactor * except for one fundamental di!erence: under all reaction conditions, even at temperatures in excess of 10003C and at stoichiometric compositions for the oxidation reaction, no open #ames or explosions were ever observed. Obvi- ously, this is completely di!erent from the reaction behav- iour in conventional reactors, where these experiments would be e!ectively impossible since the reactor would blow up at all experimental conditions shown above. Thus, it seems that the e!ective suppression of homo- geneous reactions that we had observed in the previous reactor con"guration was sustained in new reactor de- sign. It seems therefore, that this suppression is rather independent of the channel material and details of the particular reactor con"guration. Furthermore, the fact that this suppression of an explosive behaviour could be achieved even with the substantially reduced heat losses in the new reactor con"guration seems to indicate, that a thermal quenching of the homogeneous reaction is not the only factor (or may be not even a factor at all) determining this behaviour. To address this point, we undertook a theoretical analysis of the reaction kinetics, a brief summary of which will be given in the next section.

Fig. 5. Comparison between the previous silicon-based microreactor (circles) and the present glass reactor (diamonds): gas exit temperatures with increasing H content in air. An air #ow of 1 slpm was used in the previous reactor, while only 0.5 slpm were used in the present one.

Fig. 6. Spreading of the reaction front in Pt-catalysed H oxidation for a mixture of 0.1 slpm H and 0.14 slpm O with increasing N #ow (from left to right: 0.15, 0.25, 0.35, 0.45 slpm). Gas #ow is from left to right.

shown in Fig. 5, maximum temperature is increased by about 2003C in the new reactor despite the substan- tially lower #ow rates (0.5 slpm air vs. 1 slpm in the old reactor). Extrapolating from the results in Fig. 4, maximum temperatures around 13003C should be reachable in the new reactor con"guration if the sealing is improved to withstand the gas #ow corresponding to 1.0 slpm air. A visual inspection of the reaction channel under steady-state conditions demonstrates that the exit gas temperatures are well below the actual reaction temper- atures in the microchannel. As shown in Fig. 6, a very bright, white-glowing hot spot develops in the reactor near the reactor entrance, indicating that the reaction proceeds catalytically so fast that for low #ow rates all hydrogen is consumed over the "rst few mm of the catalytic wire already. Correspondingly, the back part of the reactor is dark in the picture, indicating that massive heat losses due to the large reactor surface area lead to a rapid cooling of the reaction gases. From the almost white colour of the glowing Pt wire the local reaction temperature can be estimated to be well in excess 12003C. As further apparent from the sequence in Fig. 6, the hot spot can be moved along the reactor axis by increas- ing the total #ow rate, for example by increasing the N #ow. Residence times become so short that the reac- tion front is eventually smeared out over the whole reac-

3. Theoretical investigation

The above experiments demonstrated that the explos- ive behaviour of the homogeneous reaction can be e!ec- tively suppressed in our microreactor con"gurations. However, the experimental results do not allow to distin- guish between the quenching of a thermal explosion of the reaction because of high heat transfer rates (i.e., heat losses to the environment), and the quenching of kinetic explosion based on the radical scavenging e!ect of the reactor walls. While in a kinetic explosion the chain branching mechanism leads to the creation of two (or more) highly reactive gas-phase radicals from one rad- ical, in a thermal explosion the heat evolved in the

at the reactor walls. This wall-induced chain termination could lead to a suppression of chain branching and thus explosive behaviour in a microreactor.

exothermal (combustion) reaction leads to an self-accel- eration of the reaction through the temperature-depen- dent rate coe$cients. Both mechanisms rely on a positive feedback in the reaction mechanism, either thermally or by way of reactant concentrations. Experimentally, these mechanisms are usually very di$cult (if not impossible) to distinguish, since typical radical chain reactions are su$ciently exothermic to lead to a rapid increase in reaction temperature once a homogeneous #ame occurs, and an increase in reaction temperature is typically ac- companied by a strong increase in radical concentra- tions. It seems to be rather common knowledge that H/O mixtures display a quenching distance of about 1 mm (see for example, Williams, 1984; Lewis & von Elbe, 1987). However, since this critical value is exactly in the order of magnitude of our reactor dimensions and since no clear derivation of this value as well as a critical discussion of thermal vs. kinetic explosion mechanism seemed to be available in the published literature, we decided to con- duct a detailed kinetic analysis of the reaction mecha- nism to answer these questions, which are obviously crucial to a true understanding of our experimental re- sults. Due to space limitations, only a brief summary of the results can be given here and the reader is referred to a more comprehensive upcoming publication for more details (Veser, 2001).

3.2. Explosion limits

The curves which delimit explosive from well-control- led reaction behaviour are usually referred to as `ex- plosion limitsa and plotted in p, ¹-explosion diagrams. For the H/O reaction, this explosion limit is character- ised by two turning points which separate the curve into three explosion limits, of which the "rst one extends from very low pressures up to the "rst turning point, the second one connects the two turning points and lies at intermediate temperatures and pressures, and the third one completes the curve from the second turning point towards higher pressures (for a detailed description, see for example, Williams, 1984; Lewis & von Elbe, 1987). Even though the exact quantitative determination of the explosion limits requires rather detailed simulations with the full reaction mechanism, the processes that lead to the occurrence of the observed explosion limits are qualitatively easy to understand. At very low pressures (below about 5 mbar), the reaction remains virtually un- reactive since the mean free path of the molecules is large in comparison to the reactor dimensions. Thus, a reactive collision between two molecules is unlikely and the few reactive species that are formed quickly react to stable molecules at the reactor walls. With increasing pressure in the reaction vessel, intermolecular collisions become more and more probable as the mean free path decreases, until the xrst explosion limit is crossed and reactive events outnumber wall collisions. Due to the above-mentioned positive feedback in the reaction mechanism an explosive self-acceleration occurs. Since this explosion limit is de- termined by the competition between wall reactions and intermolecular reactions, it is dependent on the di!usion of the reactive particles to the reactor walls and can thus be expected to be strongly dependent on the dimensions of the reaction vessel. Upon a further increase of the pressure, the reaction remains explosive until the second explosion limit is reach- ed and the reaction suddenly falls back to a slow, control- led reaction state due to the increasing contribution of trimolecular reaction events, which constitute chain propagation rather than chain branching steps and thus counter the explosive self-acceleration. At even higher pressures, the reaction shows again a sudden transition to an explosive behaviour. The ex- planation for this third explosion limit is less straightfor- ward, since both a thermal as well as kinetic e!ect can lead to explosive behaviour at this point. This will be discussed further in Section 3.2.3. The exact location of the explosion limits thus depends on various factors such as the size of the reaction vessel,

3.1. Reaction mechanism

Typical combustion processes such as the H oxida- tion are based on radical chain mechanisms (Laidler, 1987; Williams, 1984). For the H/O system, a complete mechanism comprises more than 40 elementary reaction steps (Baldwin & Walker, 1972). For the present invest- igation, however, simpli"ed reaction mechanisms follow- ing Lewis and von Elbe (1987) and Scott (1995) were used, which have been shown to grasp the essential features of the reaction mechanism well. In such radical chain mechanisms, four di!erent basic reaction steps are usually distinguished: The reaction is started by chain initiation steps, in which reactive radicals are formed from stable molecules. These radicals are the true `carriersa of the reaction and can propagate the reaction either in a controlled way in chain propagation steps, in which they react with molecules to give one new radical, or in chain branching reactions, in which they react with a molecule to give two (or more) new radical species. It is this latter type of reaction that is responsible for kinetic explosions, since the formation of two highly reactive radicals form one yields a positive feedback mechanism in the reaction scheme which will lead to a self-acceleration of the reaction unless it is countered by some very strong `limitinga mechanism. This can be provided by the chain termination steps, in which radicals react to more stable molecules, either in the gas phase or

the surface-to-volume ratio, and the initial reactant con- centrations (including inert components, such as N). Only a very brief outline of the determination of the explosion limits can be given here due to space con- straints. The equations were based on two major simpli"- cations: a closed, spherical reactor geometry was assumed and the above-mentioned simpli"ed reaction schemes were used. It can be shown, however, that nei- ther of these two assumptions has a strong in#uence on the results of the derivation (Veser, 2001). Based on the distinction of three fundamentally di!erent types of reaction steps in the H/O reaction system, we separate the reaction into chain initiation steps, in which radicals (or chain carriers) are formed at a rate , chain branching steps, in which the concentra- tion of the chain carriers n increases at a rate f[n], and chain termination steps, in which the concentration of chain carriers is reduced either by gas-phase reactions at a rate g[n] or by reactions at the reactor wall at a rate [n]. This results in the following simple rate law for the chain carriers n (Baldwin & Walker, 1972);

Fig. 7. The three kinetic explosion limits for a stoichiometric H/O mixture and three di!erent reactor diameters: d"1 splm (circles), d"1 mm (triangles) and d"100 m (diamonds). The explosive regime is the upper right area that is delimited towards lower pressures and temperatures by the crossing of any of the three limit curves.

The results of the derivation of the explosion limits are summarised in Fig. 7, which depicts the explosion limits a stoichiometric H/O mixture for three di!erent reac- tor diameters of 1 m, 1 mm and 100 m. The three explosion limits, which bound the range of explosive reaction behaviour towards lower temperatures and pressures, and their dependence on reactor dimensions will be discussed brie#y in the following.

d[n] dt "#f [n]!g[n]![n]

"#[n], (1)

where "f!g! denotes the net branching factor. For "xed initial conditions (composition, ¹, p) and assuming negligible conversion,  and  are constant and the integration of Eq. (1) with the initial condition [n]"0 yields

3.2.1. First explosion limit From the above discussion of the ignition limits it can already be expected that a strong dependence of the "rst ignition limit on the reactor dimensions should be found. Since the ignition limit is determined by the interplay between the (explosive) gas-phase reaction and the quenching in#uence of the reactor walls, smaller reactor dimensions facilitate the di!usion of the reactants to the reactor walls and thus increase the explosion limit. This is con"rmed by our analysis as seen in Fig. 7. Clearly, the "rst explosion limit (which is given by the rather #at horizontal line) is strongly dependent on the reactor dimensions, with a drastic increase in the ex- plosion limit with decreasing reactor diameter. Despite the qualitatively obvious in#uence of the longer di!usion path on the ignition process, it seems surprising to "nd such a strong dependence. The mean free path for H radicals is about 400 nm at atmospheric pressure and ¹"8003C, which is several orders of magnitude smaller than any reactor dimension considered here. Thus, only a small number of free rad- icals should be able to reach the wall without any prior intermolecular collisions. Clearly, the extreme sensitivity of the reaction to the radical concentration near the ignition limit leads to a very strong e!ect of this small perturbation.

[n]"t for "0, (2)

[n]" (exp(t)!1) for O0. (3)

While for (0, the latter expression results in a con- stant expression (!/, corresponding to a slow, con- trolled reaction), for '0, the exponential term will yield an exponential growth of [H] and thus an explosive course of the reaction. The interesting limiting case is thus "0, which denotes the explosion limit. Eq. (1) must usually be solved for all chain carriers and the simultaneous solution of the resulting set of coupled equations yields the explosion limit. However, for the H/O system it is known that H ) radicals are substan- tially less reactive than O ) and OH ) , and the latter can therefore be assumed to be at quasi-steady state. Thus, the analysis of Eq. (1) for H ) radicals alone yields the explosion limits for the current reaction system. In the following, the results for the three explosion limits will be discussed only for stoichiometric mixture of H and O, although the main results hold similarly for other ratios and a wide range of N dilutions.

3.2.2. Second explosion limit No strong in#uence of reactor dimensions on the position of the position of the second explosion limit is expected, since this limit is determined by the interplay between di!erent gas-phase reaction pathways. Indeed, virtually no dependence of the second explosion limit on reactor dimensions is observed (except for the transition region close to the third explosion limit). As already shown by Lewis and von Elbe (1987), the limiting cases of in"nitely large to in"nitely small reactor dimensions di!er only by a factor of 2/3, which is obviously negligible in the logarithmic scale of Fig. 7.

Fig. 8. Kinetic explosion limits (squares) and thermal explosion limits (calculated for ¹"¹ (circles) and ¹"¹  (triangles)) for a reactor with 300 m ("lled symbols) and 1 m diameter (open symbols).

3.2.3. Third explosion limit The third explosion limit constitutes the most interest- ing case. First of all, it is the third explosion limit which is normally responsible for the occurrence of an explosion under ambient pressure conditions. Thus, this limit has a particular importance for very practical reasons. Fur- thermore, both a kinetic explosion as well as a thermal explosion are possible mechanisms under these compar- atively high pressure conditions (compared to the other two explosion limits). At this explosion limit, particularly wall reactions of HO species are known to play an important role for the renewed onset of explosive behav- iour. Correspondingly, a strong dependence of the third explosion limit on reactor dimensions is observed again in our analysis (Fig. 7). However, unlike for the "rst explosion limit where decreasing reactor dimensions es- sentially lead to a vertical parallel-shift of the curve, the third explosion limit is shifted substantially both towards higher pressures and higher temperatures, and the slope of the explosion limit is #attening in the course of this shift. While the in#uence of the reaction diameter on the "rst explosion limit was mainly based on the dependence of the di!usion process, i.e. on the length of the di!usion path, the third explosion limit is now determined by the detailed interplay of the elementary reaction steps and thus shows a much more complex dependence on reactor dimensions. In contrast to this `kinetic explosiona, the thermal explosion mechanism relies on the increased heat pro- duction caused by the increasing reaction rate with high- er pressures. This heat production leads to a positive feed back due to the Arrhenius-type temperature dependence of the reaction rate and thus a self-acceleration of the reaction rate (i.e. an explosion) occurs. The determina- tion of the thermal explosion limit is, therefore, be based on an energy balance of the system, balancing the chem- ical heat production with the heat losses from the reactor. The heat transfer coe$cient for the microreactor was, therefore, calculated based on standard heat transfer correlations (VDI, 1991), using typical values (wall thick- ness, wall materials) from our experimental microreactor set-up.

Fig. 8 shows a comparison between the calculated thermal and kinetic explosion limits for a `macroscopica reactor (d"1 m) and a microreactor (d"300 m). Since the reactor wall temperature is necessary for the heat loss calculations, two limiting cases for the thermal explosion limit are shown, with the reactor walls assum- ing the reaction temperature (triangles) and the reactor walls remaining at room temperature (circles). As appar- ent from the graph, the exact wall temperature has a noticeable but not decisive in#uence on the position of the third limit for a macroscopic reactor, while the two curves becomes essentially indistinguishable for a microreactor with reactor dimensions in the sub- millimetre range. One can furthermore see, that the thermal explosion limit lies below the kinetic explosion limit for all condi- tions, in agreement with the somewhat simplifying deno- tion of this explosion limit as `thermal explosiona in many textbooks. Interestingly, however, the `branchinga of the thermal explosion limit from the kinetic explosion limit occurs for the macroscopic reactor right around p"10 Pa, i.e. around ambient pressure. Clearly, in a typical ambient pressure experiment a distinction be- tween these two explosion limits will be impossible. Due to the higher heat losses from the small microchannels, this di!erence between the thermal and the kinetic explosion limit becomes more pronounced in a micro- reactor.

3.3. Discussion: ignition in microchannels

The analysis of the reaction mechanism at the ex- plosion limits thus con"rmed our experimental "ndings that an e!ective suppression of explosive homogeneous gas-phase reactions can indeed be expected in a su$- ciently small microreactor. Beyond this con"rmation, the analysis further explains this suppression not simply by

range of feed and reaction conditions. A theoretical anal- ysis of the explosion limits in the homogeneous H/O- system con"rmed that the suppression of the explosive reaction behaviour in these microreactors can indeed be traced to a kinetic quenching of the radical chain mecha- nism rather than a thermal quenching due to increased heat transfer rates. It could be shown that microreactors with characteristic dimensions below 1 mm become in- trinsically safe for this reaction system at ambient pres- sure conditions. While the derivation strictly only applies to the H/O-reaction, similar e!ects can be expected for other radical chain reactions, although the full extent of the wall quenching has to be tested individually for each reaction system. Overall, the results of this study indicate the great potential of catalytic microreactors, particularly as labor- atory tools for the exploration of new reaction pathways in hitherto `forbiddena parameter regions, but also for the practical application in highly explosive reaction systems.

a `thermal quenchinga of the homogeneous reaction due to the heat losses from a microreactor but rather by a `radical quenchinga, i.e. a kinetic e!ect. This is an important distinction since it indicates that a microreac- tor will remain a safe reactor con"guration even when heat losses from the reaction channel are further reduced by an appropriate reactor design. The drastic qualitative changes in going from a conventional (macroscopic) reactor to a microreactor become particularly apparent when looking at increasing reaction temperatures at ambient pressure conditions (i.e p"10 Pa in Fig. 7): for a conventional reactor with 1 m diameter, explosive behaviour sets in upon crossing the third explosion limit around ¹"4203C. Decreasing the reactor diameter to 1 mm, explosion occurs at sub- stantially higher temperatures (¹+7503C) by crossing the second explosion limit. If the reactor diameter is now reduced by another order of magnitude from 1 mm to 100 m, the explosive reaction regime gets pushed further towards higher pressures and temperatures, so that even the "rst ignition limit is raised above ambient pressure conditions and explosive behaviour can generally be excluded, i.e. the reaction becomes inherently safe. It should also be mentioned that this result was qualitatively con"rmed by an experimental observation during the test phase of our reactor con"guration: according to the theoretical analysis, the critical transition to an inherently safe reaction behaviour occurs in the transition from a characteristic reactor dimension in the order of 1 mm to 100 m. In agreement with that, we observed during our experiments that a premixed H/O mixture ignited homogeneously in a feed tube with 2 mm inner diameter, while no ignition was ever observed when the gases were fed separately to our microreactors with their characteristic dimensions of +200 m.

Acknowledgements

The author gratefully acknowledges "nancial assist- ance by the `Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschafta (DFG) as well as the skillful assistance by Thorsten Schmitt.