Microreactors, i.e. chemical reactors with typical di- mensions (such as reactor diameter) in the sub-millimetre range, have become the topic of intense research due to the many interesting novel possibilities they o!er. The potential of microreactors in the development of novel chemical process routes has been stressed repeatedly and in some cases also demonstrated in the past few years (Lerou et al., 1996; Srinivasan et al., 1997; Ehrfeld, 1997; Abraham et al., 1998; Zech & HoK nicke, 1998; HoK nicke, 1999). In most cases the interest in microreactors re- volved around their small thermal inertia, which allows for a very direct control of the reaction temperature, their inherent safety due to the very small reactor volume and well-controllable reaction conditions, and their small overall dimensions which makes them ideal for applica- tions where space requirements are critical (such as in mobile devices). Furthermore, the large surface-to-vol- ume ratio typical for microreactors has been stressed often, since this results in a very short path for heat and mass transport, leading to a drastic increase in the

Fig. 1. Previous microreactor design: closed stainless-steel reactor housing (left) and open reactor with silicon-etched microchannels and catalytic wire (right) (adapted from Veser et al., 1998).

Fig. 5. Comparison between the previous silicon-based microreactor (circles) and the present glass reactor (diamonds): gas exit temperatures with increasing H content in air. An air #ow of 1 slpm was used in the previous reactor, while only 0.5 slpm were used in the present one.

A sample and #exible quartz-glass-based microreactor design is presented for high-temperature catalytic gas-phase reactions. The reactor was tested with the platinum-catalysed hydrogen oxidation reaction, withstanding extremely high reaction temperatures in excess of 10003C without any signs of degradation. Experimental results are compared to those from a previous, alternative microreactor con"guration, indicating substantially reduced heat losses. No homogeneous #ames or explosions are observed under any reaction conditions, indicating that homogeneous reactions can be very e!ectively suppressed in a microreaction channel. A theoretical analysis of the explosion limits in the homogeneous H/O-system con"rms that reactors with characteristic dimensions in the sub-millimetre range become intrinsically safe at ambient pressure conditions. Furthermore, the analysis shows that the suppression of the explosive reaction behaviour in these microreactors can be traced to a kinetic quenching of the radical chain mechanism rather than a thermal quenching due to increased heat transfer rates.  2001 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.

The reactor used in the present investigation is a fur- ther development of a previous microreactor with the intent to increase the applicability of the reactor towards even higher temperatures, thus rendering the study of high-temperature catalytic reactions possible. In doing this, the major design guidelines of the previous reactor development were maintained which were: an easy hand- ling of the reactor set-up; suitability of the microreactor for a wide range of reactions and reaction conditions; reusability of the reactor units; and easy availability or cheap fabrication techniques for the reactor parts. While the previous reactor consisted of etched silicon chips which were housed in a sparc-eroded stainless-steel housing (Fig. 1), the new reactor design was based on commercially available quartz-glass tubes with an inner diameter of 600 m, an outer diameter of 6 mm and a length of 20 mm (Fig. 2). The new design is thus even cheaper and simpler than the previous one. This simpli- city is, however, paid o! by a reduced #exibility, since the use of ready-made quartz-glass tubes limits the reactor con"guration currently to straight, parallel channels. Quartz-glass was chosen as base material since macro- scopic quartz-glass tubular reactors have su$ciently demonstrated their applicability to high-temperature

at the reactor walls. This wall-induced chain termination could lead to a suppression of chain branching and thus explosive behaviour in a microreactor.

Keywords: Microreactor design; Catalytic high-temperature reactions; Hydrogen oxidation; Explosion limits

Fig. 8 shows a comparison between the calculated thermal and kinetic explosion limits for a `macroscopica reactor (d"1 m) and a microreactor (d"300 m). Since the reactor wall temperature is necessary for the heat loss calculations, two limiting cases for the thermal explosion limit are shown, with the reactor walls assum- ing the reaction temperature (triangles) and the reactor walls remaining at room temperature (circles). As appar- ent from the graph, the exact wall temperature has a noticeable but not decisive in#uence on the position of the third limit for a macroscopic reactor, while the two curves becomes essentially indistinguishable for a microreactor with reactor dimensions in the sub- millimetre range. One can furthermore see, that the thermal explosion limit lies below the kinetic explosion limit for all condi- tions, in agreement with the somewhat simplifying deno- tion of this explosion limit as `thermal explosiona in many textbooks. Interestingly, however, the `branchinga of the thermal explosion limit from the kinetic explosion limit occurs for the macroscopic reactor right around p"10 Pa, i.e. around ambient pressure. Clearly, in a typical ambient pressure experiment a distinction be- tween these two explosion limits will be impossible. Due to the higher heat losses from the small microchannels, this di!erence between the thermal and the kinetic explosion limit becomes more pronounced in a micro- reactor.

range of feed and reaction conditions. A theoretical anal- ysis of the explosion limits in the homogeneous H/O- system con"rmed that the suppression of the explosive reaction behaviour in these microreactors can indeed be traced to a kinetic quenching of the radical chain mecha- nism rather than a thermal quenching due to increased heat transfer rates. It could be shown that microreactors with characteristic dimensions below 1 mm become in- trinsically safe for this reaction system at ambient pres- sure conditions. While the derivation strictly only applies to the H/O-reaction, similar e!ects can be expected for other radical chain reactions, although the full extent of the wall quenching has to be tested individually for each reaction system. Overall, the results of this study indicate the great potential of catalytic microreactors, particularly as labor- atory tools for the exploration of new reaction pathways in hitherto `forbiddena parameter regions, but also for the practical application in highly explosive reaction systems.

