until almost 100% BY conversion (i.e., when BY in the mixture reaches around 20 ppm) allowed identifying the (1) and zeroth- order regimes that arise in the course of BY consumption. For the analysis of any catalytic reactor it is desirable to have an experimental tool to provide reliable kinetic information in order to determine intrinsic kinetic parameters without the potential masking effect caused by resistance to heat and mass transport. In this sense, the microreactors are an interesting option to study this reactive system in the laboratory. These devices feature fluid channels with lengths in the millimeter-to-centimeter range and cross-sectional dimensions in the sub-micrometer to sub-milli- meter range [9–11]. Due to these small dimensions, microreactors have high surface/volume ratios (in the order 104 m2/m3) that result in improved heat and mass transfer characteristics, critical for carrying out chemical reactions efficiently [12–14]. The integration of a solid catalytic phase (heterogeneous catalyst) in microreactors is a challenging task. Conventionally, it is achieved by two methods:

2.4. Micro-reactor (MR)

These two alternatives are not exempt from drawbacks, since a powdered catalyst micro packed-bed might result in high pressure drops along the length of the reaction-channel, whereas a thin catalyst coating usually fails to utilize the entire volume of the reactor channel effectively. In this work, the behavior of an experimental microreactor (MR) developed to study the intensification of selective hydrogenation of BY on milled samples of a commercial Pd/Al2O3 catalyst, and regression of experimental data are described. These results are contrasted with those obtained in tests performed in a conven- tional fixed bed reactor (FBR), in order to verify their consistency and highlight the difference between the two systems regarding the difficulty to obtain the correct experimental data.

Batch experiments regarding the unsaturated hydrocarbons were performed using the experimental setup whose scheme is shown in Fig. 1. The 100 ml-stirred vessel (Autoclave Engineers EZE-Seal) was used for loading the initial hydrocarbon mixture, feeding H2 continuously, and maintaining the liquid saturated with H2 during the runs. The vessel was furnished with an impeller that allows the headspace gas to be dispersed into the stirred liquid. A control tower (Autoclave Engineers CT-100) allowed setting the agitation speed (up to 3000 rpm) and temperature control by means of an electrical heater that encloses the vessel. Gas and liquid samples were taken off by means of two valves connected to the vessel. The agitation speed in the stirred vessel was set at 2000 rpm. It was confirmed that at 2000 rpm the mass transport between the swarm of bubbles and the liquid is efficient enough to saturate the latter with hydrogen at reaction conditions. A magnetically driven gear micropump (Micropump 200) was used to recirculate (700 ml/min) the reaction mixture at high rate from the stirred vessel to the external reactor and back to the vessel. Apart from the desired unsaturated hydrocarbons, n-hexane was used as an inert solvent to facilitate the manipulation of the samples analyzed chromatographically. Also, a certain amount of propane was used for independent control of hydrogen partial pressure (pH2) and total pressure. The reactor, sketched in Fig. 1, represents the MR used in this study or the FBR previously used.

A multi-layer microreactor (MR) was especially developed to assess the effects of the intensification of liquid-phase selective hydrogenation of 1-butyne (BY). The behavior of the system is described and the results of the regression of experimental data are reported. Various MR configurations, differentiated by the number of catalyst layers were constructed. A commercial Pd/Al2O3 catalyst, crushed and sieved to 37–44 mm particle size, has been tested. The reaction was carried out in liquid phase, at three levels of temperature (35, 44 and 60 C), and covering a range of hydrogen partial pressure of 1.2–5 bar. The kinetic expression used to analyze the experimental data was based on an elementary step mechanism. Fitting of the kinetic parameters allowed to reproduce the experimental results within an average deviation of 3.7%. The results presented in this study are compared to experimental data obtained previously on the same commercial catalyst, but using the original 2.3 mm spherical pellets packed in a conventional fixed bed reactor (FBR). It is concluded from such a comparison that the measurements carried out in the MR are free from diffusion limitations and that the evaluation of such effects in the FBR was satisfactorily performed. ã 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Fig. 2. Micro Reactor (MR): configuration with 4 layers.

Development of a multi-layer microreactor: Application to the selective hydrogenation of 1-butyne

a) By using a micro packed-bed of powdered catalyst [15–17], or b) By using a thin layer of catalyst coating on the inner walls of microchannels [18–20].

The external fixed-bed reactor consists of a 1/4 in. o.d. stainless steel tube surrounded by a jacket. The tube is filled with a sample of catalyst pellets in their original size. A thermocouple placed inside the tube allows reading the reactive mixture temperature. Water from a thermostatic bath at the same temperature of the stirred vessel was recirculated inside the jacket. Thus, the whole loop in Fig. 1 operated under a uniform temperature level which was maintained constant during each experimental run. Some other details concerning the experimental system and the FBR were described by Ardiaca et al. [2].

Keywords: Liquid-phase hydrogenation Selectivity Micro-reactor 1-Butyne

