a Reaction conditions: 4.80 mL of the aqueous dispersion of the microreactor containing 4.0 × 10-3 mmol of Pd catalyst (ONLY for the 1st run), 4-chlorophenol (2.0 mmol), NaOH (2.0 mmol), bubbling H2 at 25 °C under atmospheric pressure for 2 h.

FIGURE 6. Catalytic HDC of (A) 2-chlorophenol and (B) 2,4-dichlo- rophenol within the microreactor in water at room temperature under atmosphere pressure. Reaction conditions: 2-chlorophenol (2.0 mmol) or 2,4-dichlorophenol (2.0 mmol), NaOH (2.0 mmol), and 4.80 mL of the aqueous dispersion of the microreactor containing 4.0 × 10-3 mmol of Pd catalyst, bubbling H2 at 25 °C under atmospheric pressure.

The present microreactor offers a turnover frequency (TOF) value of 628 h-1 in the catalytic HDC of 4-chlorophenol (TOF is measured as moles product per molar Pd per hour in the initial 5 min). To further evaluate the microreactor, we used a reference catalyst of Pd nanoparticles. The reference catalyst is prepared by immobilizing 4.1 nm Pd nanopar- ticles, the size of which is very close to those of the microre- actor, on solid microspheres of the coated microspheres. The solid microspheres are composed of the PS segment and the chelate PAEMA segment and the hydrophilic PAM segment similar with the PS-co-PAEMA-co-PAM shell-corona hollow microspheres, but they do not have hollow or porous structure (seeing the TEM image of the reference catalyst in the Supporting Information). As shown in plots A and B in Figure 5, the present microreactor is much more efficient than the reference catalyst (TOF 628 h-1 vs 260 h-1) under the same HDC reaction conditions. We think that the selec- tive concentration of 4-chlorophenol within the hollow mi- crospheres of the microreactor contributes the efficient HDC conversion. In addition, compared with several reference Pd nanocatalysts (37), the microreactor is very competitive because it can realize the catalytic HDC reaction efficiently on mild conditions such as at room temperature under atmosphere pressure. The microreactor can also be employed for the catalytic HDC of 2-chlorophenol and 2,4-dichlorophenol in water at room temperature under atmosphere pressure. For the catalytic HDC of 2-chlorophenol (Figure 6A), the conversion

FIGURE 3. (A) TEM image of the microreactor of Pd nanoparticles immobilized hollow microspheres and (B) the size distribution of immobilized Pd nanoparticles.

for about 30 min at room temperature and degassed under nitrogen purge, and K2S2O8 (0.297 g, 1.10 mmol) was then added. The mixture was degassed again, and polymerization was performed with vigorous stirring at 80 °C for 24 h under nitrogen atmosphere. The resultant template of the PS-co-PMAA microspheres was purified by centrifugation and then dispersed in 150.0 mL of water. Second, 45.0 mL of the aqueous disper- sion of the resultant PS-co-PMAA microspheres, H2O (55 mL) and K2S2O8 (0.135 g, 0.50 mmol) were added into a flask. The mixture was degassed under nitrogen purge at room temper- ature and heated to 80 °C; a mixture of styrene (1.043 g, 10.0 mmol), AEMA (2.142 g, 10.0 mmol), AM (0.355 g, 5.0 mmol), and DVB (0.135 g, 1.0 mmol) was then added. The polymeri- zation was performed under a nitrogen atmosphere with vigor- ous stirring for 24 h at 80 °C. The resultant coated microspheres of PS-co-PMAA/PS-co-PAEMA-co-PAM were purified by centrifu- gation. Third, the coated microspheres were dispersed in DMF (100 mL) for about 12 h to remove the core template to form the PS-co-PAEMA-co-PAM shell-corona hollow microspheres. The elimination of the template microspheres can be judged by dropping the DMF solution into water until no turbidity or deposition being optically observed. The resultant shell-corona hollow microspheres were collected by centrifugation and dispersed in 200.0 mL of water for direct use. 2.2.2. Preparation of Microreactor by Immobilization of Pd Nanoparticles on the Shell-Corona Hollow Microspheres. To a 250 mL conical flask were added 20.0 mL of the aqueous dispersion of the PS-co-PAEMA-co-PAM shell- corona hollow microspheres and the acidic aqueous solution of PdCl2 (80.0 mL, containing 0.10 mmol Pd). The mixture was stirred and kept at room temperature for 4 h. The pH value was then adjusted to about 7 with NaOH aqueous solution. Subse- quently, cool NaBH4 aqueous solution (10 mL, 0.05 mmol/mL) was slowly added at room temperature. The resultant microre- actor of Pd nanoparticles immobilized hollow microspheres was kept for 4 h with stirring and finally dialyzed against water for 7 days to remove the impurities. The final microreactor was dispersed in 120.0 mL of water, wherein the concentration of the Pd catalyst was 0.83 mmol/L and the loading capacity of the shell-corona hollow microspheres for the Pd catalyst was 0.27 mmol/g. 2.3. Encapsulation of 4-Chlorophenol/Phenol within the Shell-Corona Hollow Microspheres. The encapsulation of 4-chlorophenol within the PS-co-PAEMA-co-PAM shell-corona hollow microspheres in neutral or alkaline aqueous solution at room temperature is typically introduced. The aqueous disper- sion of the shell-corona hollow microspheres (0.20 mL, 9.2 mg/ mL) and NaOH (3.0 mg, 7.5 × 10-2 mmol, ONLY for the encapsulation under alkaline aqueous solution) were added into the 4-chlorophenol or phenol aqueous solution (15.0 mL, 5.0 × 10-3 mmol/mL). After being stirred for 1 h, the mixture was filtrated with 0.20 µm filter and the concentration of 4-chlo- rophenol or phenol in the filtrate was measured by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis. The amount of 4-chlorophenol or phenol encapsulated within the shell-corona hollow microspheres is calculated from the differ- ence between the fresh 4-chlorophenol or phenol aqueous solution and the filtrate. The volume percent P occupied by the encapsulated 4-chlorophenol or phenol within a single hollow microsphere is calculated by the following equation

Table 1. Catalyst Recycling of the Microreactor for the Catalytic HDC of 4-Chlorophenol in Water at Room Temperature under Atmospheric Pressure.a

Microreactor of Pd Nanoparticles Immobilized Hollow Microspheres for Catalytic Hydrodechlorination of Chlorophenols in Water

microspheres. Herein, we extend the application of the microreactor of Pd nanoparticles immobilized shell-corona hollow microspheres to the catalytic HDC of chlorophenols in the sole solvent of water. To perform catalytic HDC of chlorophenols within the microreactor in water, we should concern with the following advantages of the proposed microreactor. The first concern is on the dispersion of the microreactor of Pd nanoparticles immobilized shell-corona hollow micro- spheres in water. Because of the hydrophilic PAM corona, the PS-co-PAEMA-co-PAM shell-corona hollow microspheres and the microreactor can be easily dispersed in the sole solvent of water (see Figure S1 in the Supporting Informa- tion). The easy dispersion of the microreactor suggests that the microreactor is as same as a quasi-homogeneous catalyst (34) and therefore high catalytic efficiency is expected. The second concern is on the concentrated reactant of chlorophenols within the PS-co-PAEMA-co-PAM shell-corona hollow microspheres of the microreactor. As similar as general microcapsules (22–24), the PS-co-PAEMA-co-PAM shell-corona hollow microspheres can encapsulate and con- centrate the reactant of chlorophenols due to the hydropho- bic character of the microcavity in the hollow microspheres. For example, it is found when the shell-corona hollow microspheres are added into the aqueous solution of 4-chlo- rophenol, part of 4-chlorophenol is encapsulated within the shell-corona hollow microspheres. The encapsulated 4-chlo- rophenol occupies about 89% of vacancy volume of the hollow microspheres and the 4-chlorophenol concentration located in the hollow microspheres, 2.68 mol/L, is about 668

polymerization, are composed of three parts: (1) the hydro- philic PAM corona; (2) the cross-linked and hydrophobic wall of PS-co-PAEMA; (3) the microcavity. The microreactor of 3.9 nm Pd nanoparticles immobilized shell-corona hollow mi- crospheres are prepared first through coordination between the chelate PAEMA segment with PdCl2 and then by reduc- tion. The unique structure of the shell-corona hollow micro- spheres endue the microreactor advantages including easy dispersion in the solvent of water as similar as a quasi- homogeneous catalyst, selective concentration of the chlo- rophenol reactant and excretion of the phenol product. Because of the combined advantages, efficient catalytic hydrodechlorination of chlorophenols can be realized within the microreactor in water at room temperature under at- mosphere pressure. The microreactor of Pd-nanoparticle- immobilized shell-corona hollow microspheres is also dem- onstrated to be recyclable and low-leaching palladium catalyst for HDC reaction in water.

times higher than those in the solvent of water. Therefore we expect that the catalytic HDC reaction within the mi- croreactor can be accelerated because of the highly concen- trated reactant of chlorophenols. The third concern is on the diffusion of the product of phenol off the microreactor. With the progress of the HDC reaction within the microreactor, the product is gradually accumulated within the microreactor. Clearly, only if the product diffuses off the microreactor, the chemical balance will be transferred to the product. As discussed above, the PS-co-PAEMA-co-PAM shell-corona hollow microspheres con- tain a hydrophilic PAM corona and a hydrophobic PS-co- PAEMA shell, therefore the microcavity of the hollow mi- crospheres is generally hydrophobic. In the hydrogenation of olefin within the microreactor under organic/aqueous biphasic condition, the driven force for the resultant hydro- carbon diffusion off the microreactor is mainly ascribed to the extraction caused by the organic phase, whereas in the present catalytic HDC reaction within the microreactor in water, the resultant product of phenol can be favorably excreted off the microreactor into water because the product of phenol is more hydrophilic than the reactant of chlo- rophenols. That is to say, the microreactor can selectively concentrate the reactant of chlorophenols within the mi- croreactor but exclude the phenol product off the microre- actor in water; therefore, the balance of catalytic HDC reaction is transferred to the product and the HDC reaction is accelerated. To confirm this hypothesis, we first added the shell-corona hollow microspheres into the aqueous solution of phenol. It is found that phenol can also be encapsulated within the shell-corona hollow microspheres; however, the encapsulated phenol occupies just about 52% of vacancy volume of the hollow microspheres, which are much lower than that of the encapsulation of 4-chlorophenol, 89%. In addition, the shell-corona hollow microspheres are further added into the aqueous solution of the 4-chlorophenol/ phenol mixture (1:1 by mole), and it is found that the amount of the encapsulated 4-chlorophenol within the hol- low microspheres is 1.3 times higher than those of the encapsulated phenol. In basic aqueous solution, the selective encapsulation of 4-chlorophenol is further improved and the amount of the encapsulated 4-chlorophenol within the hol- low microspheres is 1.6 times higher than those of the encapsulated phenol. Therefore, it is concluded that the microreactor is just like a smart pump, which can selectively concentrate the reactant of chlorophenols and excrete the product of phenol. On the basis of the structure and the corresponding advantages of the microreactor introduced above, the entire concept of catalytic HDC reaction within the microreactor in the sole solvent of water is pictorially shown in Figure 4. At the beginning of the HDC reaction, chlorophenols, which are generally hydrophobic, are encapsulated and concen- trated within the shell-corona hollow microspheres of the microreactor, within which HDC reaction takes place and a more hydrophilic product of phenol is produced. With the progress of the HDC reaction, the product of phenol is

