In ‘‘Effect of flow rates on conversion'' to ‘‘Effect of reaction temperature on conversion'' sections, the effect of flow rates, the addition of N2, H2 partial pressure, EAQ con- centration and reaction temperature on EAQ conversion as well as the overall volume mass transfer coefficient are pre- sented. The results show that KLa in this microdispersion process ranges in

EAQ and thus the reduction of reactor volume. Thus, the enhancement of mass transfer will possibly lead to a reaction process with higher safety, lower cost and higher environ- mental friendship, which is an expected direction. Since the 21st century, microreactors have caught the attention of many researchers for its intensification of mixing and mass transfer rates9,10 and have been used to realize multiphase reactions efficiently.11–16 In particular, catalytic hydrogenation has been carried out in microchannel reac- tors17 and micro-packed-bed reactors,18,19 showing much higher reaction rate than in conventional reactors. Catalytic hydrogenation of EAQ in a microreactor has been studied by Halder and Lawal,6 in which a T-junction microchannel was used to form a gas-in-liquid microdispersion system, and a following micro-packed-bed reactor was used to carry out the catalytic hydrogenation, showing much higher reactor space-time yield than in conventional reactors. The study6

Results and Discussion Effect of flow rates on conversion

as in literature.31 However, the two correlations above can not be used in this microdispersion system, for Sh calculated by experimental data is almost more than 5 times higher than the predicted value, as shown in Figure 12. The significant deviation indicates that the correlations are not suitable for the microdispersion system, which is possibly caused by the different flow patterns between liquid-flow-through-solid-surface and foam-flow-through-solid- surface. In the traditional device, the gas phase and liquid phase concurrently flow through the packed bed, thus the mass transfer process from gas phase to solid surface is con- trolled by the mass transfer of gas dissolved in the liquid from gas-liquid interface to liquid-solid interface. The main fac- tors affecting this mass-transfer process are: the diffusion coefficient of gas in liquid (affecting on the rate of diffu- sion mass transfer) and the flow condition of the liquid (affecting on the convective mass transfer). Thus, Rep and Sc are used in the correlation to predict the mass-transfer coefficient in liquid-flow-through-solid-surface flow pattern. When the gas phase is dispersed as microbubbles into the liquid phase before passing through packed bed, the new flow pattern of foam-flow-through-solid-surface is formed. The flow condition and thickness of the liquid film on parti- cle surface will be different from the traditional process. The microbubble-in-liquid system with the new flow pattern could be considered to be a uniform fluid, which passes through the solid surface and forms fluid/solid system. As is well known that the diffusivity in the liquid phase is much lower than in the gas phase, thus, the controlling step of external mass-transfer is mass transfer of the gas dis- solved in the liquid through the liquid film to the solid sur- face. In this case, Sh number could be calculated with KL and the diffusivity D. D could be considered as the gas dif- fusivity in the liquid phase, which can be determined by Eq. 6. For the new flow pattern, mass transfer will be affected by new factors and new correlation needs to be developed. As shown in Figures 4–6b, KLa increases with the increase in the flow rate of liquid phase, QL, at a constant phase ratio, which is possibly due to the decrease in the liq- uid film thickness on the particle surface. On the other hand, as shown in our previous study,27 the microbubble size is proportional to Q0:20 L , thus the increase of KLa is possibly due to the decrease in the dispersion size and thus the

The experimental set-up is shown in Figure 2. The mem- brane dispersion module was fabricated by stainless steel. A stainless steel microfiltration membrane (Figure 3) with 5 lm average pore size and 0.3 mm thickness was used as the dispersion medium. The active membrane area was 10 mm2. The size of the flow channel was 15 mm  2 mm  3 mm. The size of the gas buffer reservoir was 10 mm  5 mm  10 mm. The liquid phase was pumped into the top side of the membrane (the flow channel) while the gas phase was pumped into the gas chamber. Under the action of pressure difference, the gas phase was dispersed as microsize bubbles when it passed through the membrane into the liquid phase to form a microdispersion system. The formed microdispersion system flowed out of the membrane dispersion module and into a tubular reactor packed with Al2O3-supported-palladium-catalyst. The reactor was made of stainless steel tube with an inner diameter of 10 mm and a length of 50cm filled with catalyst particles. The size of the catalyst particles was around 3 mm and the bulk density was in the range of (0.63  0.05) g/mL. In this study, 20.44 g of supported catalyst containing 0.3%  0.02% (w/w) palladium were used. The reactor was connected to a phase separator with an inner diameter of 10 mm and height of 30 cm. The gas-liq- uid system flowed into the phase separator from the middle position and was separated into gas-phase and liquid-phase almost immediately for the larger density difference of the two phases. The separated gas-phase and liquid-phase flowed out of the separator from the top and bottom respectively. An advection pump [(0–100) mL/min, with a measure- ment accuracy of 1%] was used to pump the liquid phase into the microcontactor. Two mass flowmeters (0-500 SCCM, with a measurement accuracy of 1.5%) were used to control feeding gases with stable pressure and flow rate- s.Three water baths (room temperature 100C, with a reso-

In this article, a gas-liquid microdispersion device with a 5 lm pore size microfiltration membrane as the dispersion me- dium has been developed to generate gas-liquid microdisper- sion systems for process intensification of catalytic hydrogena- tion of ethylanthraquinone. Using the device microbubbles in the size of 10–100 lm were successfully generated with ethyl- anthraquinone solution as the continuous phase. The reaction and mass transfer performance was evaluated and the effects of flow rates, addition of inertial gas (N2 as example), partial pressure of H2, EAQ concentration and reaction temperature on them were studied. By passing the gas-liquid microdisper- sion system through a packed bed reactor the conversion of ethylanthraquinone as much as 35% was reached in less than 3.5 s. The overall volume mass transfer coefficient in the microdisperion system was calculated and the value ranged in 1–21 s1, which is more than two orders of magnitude larger than the values in the normal gas-liquid trickle-bed reaction processes. The results indicate that gas-liquid microdispersion can make great improvement to solid catalyzed gas-liquid reactions which are controlled by mass transfer. An equation has been developed to correlate the mass transfer in the flow pattern of foam-flow-through-solid-surface with diffusion coefficient, inertial force, thickness of the liquid film and bub- ble size, which shows good coincidence with experimental values. The research may provide an effective way to minia- turize the hydrogenation reactor and make the H2O2 produc- tion with more safety.

Figure 5. (a) Effect of H2 volume flow rate, for a con- stant phase ratio at different molar ratio of H2 to EAQ, on the conversion of EAQ; (b) Effect of liquid flow rate on overall volume mass transfer coefficient. (Temperature: 50C, EAQ concentration: CEAQ ¼ 0.6 mol/L, H2 partial pressure at inlet: P(H2) ¼ 320kPa, N2 volume frac- tion at inlet: u(N2) ¼ 20%) [Color figure can be viewed in the online issue, which is available at wileyonlinelibrary.com.]

In this article, to miniaturize the hydrogenation reactor and make the H2O2 produc- tion with more safety a gas-liquid microdispersion system was generated to intensify the process of catalytic hydrogenation of ethylanthraquinone by passing the gas-liquid microdispersion system through a generally packed bed reactor. A microdispersion de- vice with a 5 lm pore size microfiltration membrane as the dispersion medium has been developed and microbubbles in the size of 10–100 lm were successfully gener- ated. The reaction and mass transfer performance was evaluated. The conversion of ethylanthraquinone as much as 35% was realized in less than 3.5 s. The overall vol- ume mass transfer coefficient in the microdispersion reaction system reached in the range of 1–21 s1, more than two orders of magnitude larger than the values in nor- mal gas-liquid trickle-bed reactors. A mathematical model in the form of Sh ¼ 2.0 þ 54.7Sc1/3We1/2U1/10 has been firstly suggested, which can well predict the overall mass transfer coefficient. V V C 2011 American Institute of Chemical Engineers AIChE J, 58: 1326– 1335, 2012 Keywords: gas-liquid, hydrogenation, microdispersion, mass transfer

lution of 0.1C) were used to maintain all the temperature of feed pipes, membrane dispersion module, packed bed reactor and phase separator to the required temperature. A back pressure valve [(0 to 1.0) MPa range] was used to control the outlet pressure of the phase separator to the required pressure. A pressure sensor (0–0.5 MPa, with the accuracy of 0.5%) was installed before the back pressure valve to determine the total pressure of the gas phase.

27. Tan J, Du L, Xu JH, Wang K, Luo GS. Surfactant free microdisper- sion process of gas in organic solvents in microfluidic devices. AIChE J. In press. 28. Solvay SA. Making hydrogen peroxide by the anthraquinone pro- cess. Patent: GB 2334028A, 1998. 29. AlDahhan MH, Larachi F, Dudukovic MP, Laurent A. High-pressure trickle-bed reactors: a review. Ind Eng Chem Res. 1997;36:3292– 3314. 30. Ranz WE. Friction and transfer coefficients for single particles and packed beds. Chem Eng Progr. 1952;48:247–253. 31. Wakao N, Funazkri T. Effect of fluid dispersion coefficients on par- ticle-to-fluid mass-transfer coefficients in packed-beds-correlation of Sherwood number. Chem Eng Sci. 1978;33:1375–1384.

