Diazotization reactions in micro-reactors Diazotization reac- tions were carried out in a microreactor shown in Fig. 8a, which was assembled with an interdigital channel configura- tion micro-mixer (SIMM-V2, IMM, Germany) connected with a Φ1/16″ T-connector through a stainless steel tube by the way of the co-axial dual pipe, with the T-connector con- nected with a FEP tube (1.0 mm ID) as residence time delay loop. The microreactor was immersed in a cold bath with the temperature set at 0–10 °C. In a typical operation, o- ethylaniline and 5.7 M sodium nitrite aqueous solution were, respectively, introduced to SIMM-V2 by two syringe pumps to form O/W microdroplets, with the molar ratio of amine to sodium nitrite of 1:05–1:1.1. The stream then was mixed with 6 M hydrochloric acid in the T-connector and flowed through in the FEP tube for a time of 5–20 s. The effluent was collected in a flask containing a potassium iodide solution. The mixture was stirred at 60 °C for 5 h. It was then filtered and washed with distilled water and ethyl acetate. The residue was extract- ed with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layer was washed with 10% aqueous solution of sodium sulfite and then it was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate. The solvent was evapo- rated to afford aryl iodides [26].To obtain the conversion of

Abstract We design a new continuous diazotization microreaction process in which concentrated acid and sodium nitrite solutions are used. We form oil in water (O/W) microdroplets by mixing amine with sodium nitrite aqueous solution, which react with mineral acid to make the diazotization. In this way, the formed particles are dispersed in the aqueous phase, which can flow with the main stream, and consequently are consumed. Then the fluid can smoothly flow without clogging in the microchannels and we can achieve continuous operation. We use aniline, o-methylaniline, m-methylaniline, and o-ethylaniline as the raw materials, 6 M HCl and 6.5 M H2SO4 as the acid as well as sodium nitrite to demonstrate the feasibility. The resulting diazonium salts are converted to iodo-substitute aromatic compounds to measure the yield. The results show that, SIMM-V2 micromixer is efficient to form the emulsion. Mixing the microdroplets with acid in a co-axial flow way can prevent clogging. In hydrochloric acid medium, high reaction yield can be obtained when the reaction temperature is 4 °C and the residence time is 13–15 s. In sulfuric acid medium, high conversion of aromatic amine of up to 99% and yield of approximately 90% can be achieved at the reaction temperature of 9 °C and the residence time of 14–16 s. This process provides efficient continuous diazotization reactions using concentrated acid and sodium nitrite solutions, minimizing the production of waste water.

Effect of the total flow rate The total flow rate of o- ethylaniline and sodium nitrite has important influence on the mixing and the productivity.

Figure 6 presents the effect of the total flow rate in the range of 2.44 to 14.64 mL/min. Clearly, the conversion of o- ethylaniline is almost unchanged at 99%, while the yield of o- ethyl iodide gradually increases from 78.5 to 83.9%. This may be ascribed to the formation of more uniform-sized microdroplets at higher total flow rate. By considering the length the delay loop and the pressure drop of the system, we select the total flow rate of o-ethylaniline and sodium nitrite of 9.76 mL/min. From the above results, we can obtain the suitable operation parameters for continuous diazotization reaction with concentrated acid and sodium nitrite solutions as follows: the reaction temperature is 4 °C; the total flow rate of o-ethyl aniline and sodium nitrite is 9.76 mL/min; the flow rate of o-ethylaniline is 4.0 mL/min; the sodium nitrite con- centration, the flow rate, and the molar ratio of sodium nitrite to o-ethylaniline, are 5.7 M, 5.76 mL/min, 1.05:1, respective- ly; the concentration of hydrochloric acid, the flow rate, and the molar ratio of hydrochloric acid to o-ethylaniline are 6.0 M, 16.68 mL/min, and 3.2:1, respectively; the residence time is 13 s. Under such conditions, the conversion of o-ethyl aniline is 100%, and yield of o-ethyl iodobenzene is 86%.

Analysis The flow pattern of the mixed stream was taken as movies by using an inverted microscope (Leica DMi8) equipped with a CCD camera. The GC analysis was carried out on Agilent 7890B equipped with a HP-5 capillary column (30 m × 0.32 mm × 0.25 μm) and a flame ionization detector. The column temperature was started at 60 °C for 1 min, then increased to 280 °C at a rate of 10 °C /min. The temperatures of gasification chamber and detecting chamber were 280 and 290 °C, respectively.

Journal of Flow Chemistry (2018) 8:139–146 https://doi.org/10.1007/s41981-018-0018-1

diazonium intermediate, amount of waste,the low efficiency and poor mixing in large vessel that leads to undesired byproducts [5–7]. Over past years, an explosion on continuous flow syntheses has appeared in chemical literatures. Compared to traditional batch vessels, flow reactors have many advantages such as better thermal and mass transfer; more accurate control of reaction parameters and ease to implement continuously. Furthermore, safety hazards in handling exothermic reactions associated with explosive intermediates are minimized be- cause they involve a much smaller volume in the reaction train [8–11]. Commonly, the amine dissolved in diluted acid or sometimes organic solvent as one feed stock and sodium ni- trite dissolved in water or/and organic solvent as another feed stock. The obtained conversions of amines and the yields of the products are higher than those of batch reactions with controlling the temperatures at 0–25 °C and the residence time in 10–30 s [12–14]. Like the above practices, amines are dissolved in the acid solutions to form homogeneous solutions to facilitate the feed- ing of amines to the microreactors by pumps. In the conven- tional way of performing the reactions, amount of waste

when conducting the diazotization reactions. This poses a problem to conduct such reaction in microreactor resulting from the formation of solids after mixing amine with acid. To this end, we propose a process of conducting continuous diazotization reaction which is carried out by mixing liquid amine with a sodium nitrite aqueous solution to form O/W microdroplets, followed by contacting with mineral acid. As such the formed solid particles from amine and acid are to be dispersed in the aqueous phase. Hence they can flow with the main stream in microchannels, avoiding clogging. High con- centrations of acid and sodium nitrite solutions can be used. We first examine the mixing of o-ethylaniline with 5.7 M sodium nitrite and consequent mixing with 6 M hydrochloric acid by two Φ1/16″ T-type connectors at 2 °C. The molar ratio of o-ethylaniline to sodium nitrite to hydrochloric acid is 1:1.05:3.2, with the ratio of flow rate of 1:1.44:4.16. Microscopic observation of the flow pattern reveals that amine and sodium nitrite form segmented flow after mixing in the first mixer, and the length of the amine segment decreases with increasing the flow rate at the total flow rate of less than 7.32 mL/min (Fig. 1a-d). After mixing with acid in the second mixer, solids can be observed immediately and clogging oc- curs in 5 s. We then try to mix amine with sodium nitrite in a co-axle T-type mixer. Segment flow is also formed, resulting in clogging after mixing with acid. Apparently such simple mixing method cannot avoid clogging. To obtain O/W microdroplets after mixing amine with so- dium nitrite, we tested SIMM-V2 that is more suitable to generate such flow pattern because of its more complex mixing principle as well as much smaller channel size than the T-connector [17]. When the total flow rate of o- ethylaniline and sodium nitrite is 1.22 mL/min, microdroplets can be observed, which quickly phase separate to form slug flow (Fig. 1e). Increasing the total flow rate to 1.464 mL/min leads to the formation of much more microdroplets, which can last longer time before they change to slugs (Fig. 1f). We can generate stable O/W flow at the amine and sodium nitrite total flow rate of 2.44 mL/min (Fig. 1g) and the amine droplets get smaller with increasing the flow rate (Fig. 1h). Mixing the O/ W mixture with acid in a simple T-type mixer by collision can lead to smooth operation of the reaction for at least 3 min before clogging occurs. We then examine the way of mixing the O/W mixture with acid on the smooth operation of the diazotization reaction. When the O/W mixture is mixed with acid by shearing, the system can run for 3.5 min, and then clogging occurs. When the O/W mixture and acid are mixed in a co-axial structure, the system can run smoothly for a long time. These results indi- cate that the co-axial mixing is a suitable way. In the following experiments, we use the designed diazotization setup which is assembled with a SIMM-V2 to mix amine and sodium nitrite, connected with a T-type co-axial mixer to mix with acid to examine the reaction parameters.

Fig. 8 a Schematic representation of the microreactor setup for the diazotization. The dashed area indicates a cold bath. b Detailed illustration of the co-axial dual pipe assembly in a T-connector

Continuous operation is arguably the most appropriate method to produce large volumes of a product uniformly, consistently, and reliably. A fully continuous flow process has been described to utilize concentrated acid and sodium nitrite solutions in a in-house designed microreactor, which was carried out by first mixing amine with a sodi- um nitrite aqueous solution in a micromixer to form O/W microdroplets, followed by mixing with mineral acid in a co-axial micromixer. We used aniline, o-methylaniline, m- methylaniline and o-ethylaniline as the raw materials, hy- drochloric acid, and sulfuric acid as the acid medium to conduct the reactions for the formation of iodobenzene. These reactions, in which insoluble solids were formed after mixing the mineral acid with amine, could be oper- ated smoothly at suitable temperatures, without the addi- tion of large amounts of water or the extra solvent. In addition, sodium nitrite aqueous solution with concentra- tion of 5.7 M could be used, with a molar ratio of acid to amine of 3.1–3.2. For comparison, 2.1 M of sodium nitrite had to be used in conventional batch reactions. High raw material conversions over 98% and yields of the iodo- substitute aromatic compounds about 90% could be achieved at 2–9 °C and residence times of less than 20 s. Formation of O/W microdroplets by mixing amine with sodium nitrite is crucial, as the formed solids resulting from the contact between amine and acid can be dispersed in the aqueous phase, resulting in their smooth flow with the main stream and consequent, avoiding clogging of the microchannel. Such design of the microreactor and the

