Influence of Mixing Performance on Polymerization of Acrylamide in Capillary Microreactors

Yang Song, Minjing Shang, Guangxiao Li, Zheng-Hong Luo , and Yuanhai Su Dept. of Chemical Engineering, School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, 200240, P.R. China

DOI 10.1002/aic.16046 Published online December 15, 2017 in Wiley Online Library (wileyonlinelibrary.com)

Nonliving free radical polymerization of acrylamide was chosen as a model reaction to investigate the effect of mixing performance on the polymerization in capillary microreactors. The polymerization rate was enhanced by increasing the volumetric flow rate and the reaction temperature at a constant residence time. However, higher temperatures led to lower Mn and larger PDI. The reaction mixture viscosity increased significantly during the polymerization. Both diffu- sion and dispersion coefficients were calculated to evaluate the mixing performance in microreactors. The capillary microreactor with a larger inner diameter led to higher monomer conversions, lower Mn and larger PDI compared to the capillary microreactor with a smaller inner diameter, which could be explained through a heat balance analysis for the polymerization and the dispersion effect. Moreover, it was found that the addition of a pre-mixing stage mini- mized the effect of insufficient mixing between the initiators and the monomers on the polymerization. V C 2017 American Institute of Chemical Engineers AIChE J, 64: 1828–1840, 2018 Keywords: mixing, diffusion, polymerization, viscosity, microreactor

controlled by changing the flow rate ratio of different phases or doping nanoparticles into the inner phase for the core sur- face modification. Hornung et al. prepared a series of different polymers with the monomer (acrylamide, acrylate or vinyl acetate) conversion ranging from 80% to 100% at tempera- tures between 70 and 1008C using RAFT polymerization in microreactors.13 The values of PDI were controlled between 1.15 and 1.20 and the average molecular weights were similar to those obtained in the batch reactor. The microreactor tech- nology provided a facile scale-up route for the RAFT polymer- ization, which is difficult for conventional batch processing because of the oxygen-sensitive nature of the RAFT process. Iwasaki et al. achieved a larger scale polymerization of methyl methacrylate (MMA) using a numbering-up strategy with an eight-microchannel reactor system.14 This microreactor sys- tem accomplished a continuous operation for 6 days to pro- duce 4.0 kg of the polymer without any problems, indicating the application potential of microreactors for the industrial production of polymers. As is well known, mixing represents an important phenome- non in many liquid-liquid reaction systems, for example, polymerization, precipitation, crystallization, self-catalysis, enzymatic catalysis, and so on, in which the mixing and the chemical reactions interact.15–17 Optimized mixing perfor- mance improves the contact of reactants and thus greatly influences selectivity, yield and quality of products. In particu- lar, the improvement on the mixing performance may reduce the value of PDI and lead to more target products with desir- able characteristics in many polymerization processes.5,7,18–20

Introduction

Microreactor technology is regarded as a promising process intensification strategy for chemical synthesis due to its unique characteristics, such as well-defined flow properties, high effec- tive surface-to-volume ratio, enhanced heatand mass-transfer rates, improved chemistry, and excellent process safety.1–3

With these advantages, polymers with low molecular weight distributions, well controlled molecular weight and structures, can be synthesized using microreactor technology.4–10

L€owe et al. reported the preparation of poly(styrene) with narrow molecular weight distributions (polydispersity index of molecular weight distribution, PDI 5 1.08–1.28) by living anionic polymerization method in a microreactor.11 The reac- tion time was significantly reduced from several hours to sev- eral seconds when the batch reactor was replaced by the microreactor. Vandenbergh et al.8 synthesized a sequential multi-block-copolymer consisting of five consecutive acrylate blocks with controllable properties (number-average molecu- lar weight, Mn 5 3,1200 g/mol and PDI 5 1.46) through the reversible addition fragmentation chain transfer (RAFT) poly- merization in a continuous-flow microreactor within 20 min. Their results demonstrated the application potential of micro- reactors for synthesizing well-defined complex copolymers. Furthermore, the application of microreactors was extended into the preparation of polymer particles. Chu et al.12 prepared monodisperse polymeric core-shell microparticles with hollow interiors in microreactors. The hole-shell structures could be

Correspondence concerning this article should be addressed to Y. Su at y.su@ sjtu.edu.cn.

The aforementioned studies on the polymerization processes conducted in microreactors focused on the optimization of operational conditions by adjusting the reactant concentration,

V C 2017 American Institute of Chemical Engineers

Figure 1. Schematic diagram of the microreactor system for synthesizing poly(acrylamide).

[Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

known and has been published by many reports.23–25 In this work, we chose the non-living free radical polymerization of acrylamide to poly(acrylamide) as the probe reaction to inves- tigate the mixing influence on the polymerization in capillary microreactors. Ammonium persulfate ((NH4)2S2O8) and sodium bisulfite (NaHSO3) composed the redox initiator for this polymerization. The mixing characteristics associated with this polymerization in the capillary microreactors were analyzed. Various factors such as volumetric flow rate, resi- dence time, reaction temperature, viscosity, capillary diameter and operational mode, which affect the reaction kinetics or the mixing efficiency and thus the polymerization in the capillary microreactor were investigated systematically. The polymeri- zation performance was evaluated in terms of the monomer conversion (X), the number-average molecular weight of poly- mers and the polydispersity index of molecular weight distri- bution. The variation of reaction mixture viscosity with the conversion and its influences on the diffusion coefficients of monomers and polymers, and on the mixing performance in the capillary microreactor were characterized in details. The characteristic mixing time in the capillary microreactor was deduced with considering the effects of the viscosity variation and the produced polymers during the polymerization. A heat balance calculation for the polymerization in the capillary microreactor was conducted and the dispersion effect was evaluated to elaborate the effect of capillary diameter on the polymerization performance. Furthermore, a premixing stage as an alternative operational mode was added into the micro- reactor system to achieve optimized conditions with low val- ues of PDI for the polymerization.

the reaction temperature or the residence time, and they devoted to reducing the PDI value to minimize the product heterogeneity or controlling the microstructures of polymers to improve their performance in some circumstances. It was claimed that the efficient mixing in microreactors was utilized to synthesize polymers to control the product properties such as Mn and PDI in all these studies. However, the mixing performance in the polymerization processes in microreactors was not evaluated systematically even it would be typically affected by a number of factors such as fluid properties, reactor structures, and operational conditions. In fact, the mixing process in the polymerization is much more complicated than that in small-molecule reaction systems due to the heterogeneity of monomers, radicals and polymer chains and the significant variation of fluid properties (e.g., viscosity) during the polymerization. The mixing will play a crucial role in the reaction processes when the characteristic timescale of the chemical reactions involved is of the same magnitude or smaller than the time- scale of the mixing process.21 In fact, the effect of mixing on the reaction processes can be judged by various dimensionless parameters such as the Fourier number (Fo), the Damk€ohler number (Da), the Peclet number (Pe), and others.15,22 In calcu- lations of these parameters, the characteristic mixing time in reactors should be obtained and then compared with other characteristic times (e.g., the characteristic reaction time and the residence time). In polymerization processes, the produc- tion of polymers greatly affects the viscosity and substance diffusivity of the reaction mixture, resulting in the difficulty on accurately estimating the mixing time and characterizing the influence of the mixing performance on the polymerization performance in conventional reactors. With the aid of its fast heat transfer rate, microreactors provide an effective pathway for precise control over the reaction temperature on which the characteristic reaction time usually strongly depends accord- ing to the reaction kinetics. Moreover, the residence time (reaction time) can be easily controlled by changing the flow rate of the reaction mixture or the reactor volume. Poly(acrylamide) is highly water-absorbent and has been widely applied in water treatment and processes like paper making and screen printing as a thickener and suspending agent. The hydrated poly(acrylamide) can be used as poly (acrylamide) gel electrophoresis and used in manufacturing soft contact lenses. More recently, poly(acrylamide) has been used as a subdermal filler for aesthetic facial surgery. More- over, the polymerization mechanism of acrylamide is well

Experimental Section Materials

Acrylamide (AM, 99.0 wt %), carbamide (CO(NH2)2, 99.0 wt %), ammonium persulfate ((NH4)2S2O8, 99.0 wt %), and sodium bisulfite (NaHSO3, 99.0 wt %) were analytical reagents (AR grade) and purchased from Macklin Biochemical Co., Ltd (Shanghai, China). Hydroquinone (C6H4(OH)2) (AR, 99.0 wt %) and methanol (AR, 99.5 wt %) were provided by Sinopharm Chemical Reagent Co., Ltd (Shanghai, China). All chemicals used in this study were not further purified.

Synthesis of poly(acrylamide)

Figure 1 shows the schematic diagram of the experimental setup for synthesizing poly(acrylamide). The material of the

AIChE Journal May 2018 Vol. 64, No. 5 Published on behalf of the AIChE DOI 10.1002/aic

A viscometer (DV2T, Brookfield) was used to measure the viscosity of the reaction mixture to determine the diffusion coefficients of monomers and produced polymers during the polymerization in the capillary microreactor. First, the reac- tion mixture from the capillary microreactor was collected in a tube placed inside an ice-water bath. Solid hydroquinone was put inside the tube for quenching the polymerization. The liq- uid sample was separated from the solid and then its viscosity was measured by the viscometer at the corresponding poly- merization temperature controlled by a heating-cooling circu- lator (DC0506, 258C1008C, Shanghai FangRui Instrument Co., Ltd. China). The viscosity of the sample was determined by an average value of three measurements and it was consid- ered as the viscosity of the reaction mixture with a certain monomer conversion. The number-average molecular weight and the polydisper- sity index were determined by a gel permeation chromatogra- phy (GPC, Perkin Elmer series 200, American) with a combination of 10 lm PL gel, 300 3 7.5 mm mixed-B and mixed-C columns and equipped with a refractive index (RI) detector. Aqueous sodium nitrate (NaNO3) solution (0.05 mol/L) was used as an eluent at a flow rate of 1.0 mL/min. The molec- ular weight was calibrated according to the standard samples of poly(acrylamide). The measurements were performed at 258C. At least two measurements were performed for each sample, and the average values were taken as the final values of Mn and PDI.

Figure 2. The maximum absorbance of acrylamide solutions with different concentrations at 197.4 nm.

[Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

capillary mircoreactors is perfluoroalkoxy alkane (PFA) with a high degree of flexibility, transparency, and strength. PFA is a kind of hydrophobic polymer which is beneficial for minimiz- ing the effect of the boundary layer of the flow in the PFA capillary. All the T-micromixer, the connectors and the capil- lary microreactor were immersed inside the water bath to maintain the set temperature. The aqueous solution of acryl- amide (2.814 mol/L) and the aqueous solution of initiator were delivered into the microreactor system using two syringe pumps (New Era Pump System, NE-1200) at the same flow rates. These two solutions contacted and mixed in a T- micromixer, and then entered into the capillary microreactor inside which the polymerization occurred. The residence time was easily controlled by changing the flow rate of the reaction mixture or the capillary length. To completely quench the polymerization after exiting the capillary microreactor, an aqueous hydroquinone (C6H4(OH)2) solution was fed to a sec- ond T-micromixer and contacted with the reaction stream from the capillary microreactor. The liquid sample was col- lected in a conical flask for further treatment. Poly(acryl- amide) was extracted from the mixed solution by methanol for three times. These three extraction solutions were combined and then dried in vacuum at 258C for 24 h. The solid Poly(- acrylamide) was obtained and further treated for analysis.

Reaction mechanism of the acrylamide polymerization

A free radical polymerization mainly consists of three ele- mentary reactions including chain initiation, propagation, and termination.26 Free radicals for the acrylamide polymerization are produced in the redox initiator system presented as follows27

S2O22 8 1HSO2 3 ! SO2 4 •1SO22 4 1HSO3• (R1)

SO2 4 •1HSO2 3 ! SO22 4 1HSO3• (R2)

2HSO3• ! 2HS2O6 (R3)

The formation of free radicals is mainly determined by the redox reaction (R1). In this main reaction, S2O22 reacts with HSO2 3 to generate radicals of SO2 4 • and HSO3•. A side reac- tion (R2) occurs between SO2 4 • and HSO2 3 to generate SO22 and HSO3•. This side reaction is a free radical transfer reaction and has no influence on the total free radical concentration. Another side reaction (R3) is a free radical termination reac- tion with two moles of HSO3• forming one mole of H2S2O6, which leads to the decrease of total free radical concentration. To suppress the second side reaction (R3), the mole radio of (NH4)2S2O8 and NaHSO3 was set as 1.2 in this study. In the chain initiation reaction, the free radicals activate mono- mers to form monomer radicals expressed as reaction 4 (R4)

Analytical procedure

A UV/visible light spectrophotometer (UV-1800, Shi- madzu, Japan) was used to measure the light absorption prop- erties of the mixed solution collected at the outlet of the capillary microreactor to determine the conversion of acrylam- ide. The wavelength in the measurement was set as 197.4 nm with a maximum absorption of acrylamide. Figure 2 shows the maximum absorbance of aqueous acrylamide solutions with different concentrations at 197.4 nm wavelength. The linear correlation coefficient (R2) for the curve was 0.99996, indicat- ing that the amount of acrylamide remaining in the reaction mixture can be properly determined according to the Lambert -Beer law. Then the conversion of acrylamide was calculated. At least two measurements were performed for each sample, and the average values were taken for calculating the value of the monomer conversion.

R•1CH25CHCONH2 ! R2CH2 CONH2 ð ÞCH• (R4)

where R represents the free radicals of SO2 4 or HSO2 3 . In the chain propagation reaction, the monomer radicals attack monomers to form chain radicals, which can be expressed as reactions 5 (R5)

R2 CH2 CONH2 ð ÞCH ½ n•1CH25CHCONH2 ! R2 CH2 CONH2 ð ÞCH ½ n11• n  1 ð Þ (R5)

The chain termination reaction occurs mainly due to the dis- proportionation.28 Two chain radicals form two polymers of

DOI 10.1002/aic Published on behalf of the AIChE May 2018 Vol. 64, No. 5 AIChE Journal

Effects of volumetric flow rate and residence time on the acrylamide polymerization

Flow rate is an important factor which can control the flow pattern and affect the mixing performance in micromixers and microreactors.15,30 The Reynolds number in microstructured devices is usually low due to their small characteristic dimen- sions and low volumetric flow rates, and therefore the flow in micromixers and microreactors is generally within the laminar flow regime.31 Engler et al. demonstrated that the laminar flow in a T-micromixer can be further distinguished among three flow regimes including stratified flow, vortex flow, and engulf- ment flow with the Reynolds number lower than 200.32 Both experimental and simulation results have proven that the increase of flow rate results in a higher mixing quality due to the increased vorticity and disturbance inside the T-junction of the T-micromixer.16,32

Figure 3. Schematic diagram of the acrylamide poly- merization accompanied by the mixing at low flow rates.

[Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

ploy(acrylamide) with different chain lengths, presented as reaction 6 (R6)

Figure 4 shows the effects of the volumetric flow rate (qv) and the residence time (t) on the monomer conversion. The same residence time could be obtained for different volumetric flow rates by applying capillaries with different lengths (L) at the same inner diameter. As shown in Figure 4, the monomer conversion increased significantly with the increase of the resi- dence time. When the residence time was less than 2 min, there was no much difference of monomer conversions for dif- ferent volumetric flow rates. In this polymerization process, the formation of initial free radicals needs high activation energy, and the chain initiation reaction rate is slow. With such a short residence time, the monomer conversion was rather low for all these volumetric flow rates (X < 8%). The conversion increased with increasing the volumetric flow rate when the residence time was longer than 2 min. This illustrates that the intensified mixing performance provided by a higher volumetric flow rate is beneficial for accelerating the polymer- ization rate. With the increase of the volumetric flow rate, the

R2 CH2 CONH2 ð ÞCH ½ n•1R2 CH2 CONH2 ð ÞCH ½ m•

! ½R2 CH2 CONH2 ð ÞCH ½ x1R2 CH2 CONH2 ð ÞCH ½ y (R6)

Results and Discussion Mixing in the polymerization process in capillary microreactors

The monomer solution and the initiator solution contact in the T-micromixer and then enter into the capillary microreac- tor. The flow pattern during the acrylamide polymerization in the capillary microreactor was laminar due to relatively low Reynolds numbers, so the mixing process was driven by the radial diffusion. Figure 3 presents a schematic diagram of the acrylamide polymerization accompanied by the mixing at low flow rates in the radial direction. Two reaction regions in the capillary microreactor are, respectively, defined as Zone 1 and Zone 2, based on an assumption that there is an interface between the monomer solution and the initiator solution at the initial contact of these two reactive solutions. The chain initia- tion reaction only occurred at the interface initially. With the concentration gradient as a driving force, a part of monomer molecules and initial radicals crossed the interface and dif- fused to the other reaction zone when the mixing occurred. The monomers and the free radicals participated in the poly- merization forming longer molecular chains at the interface, limiting the diffusion of monomers and initial radicals due to the effect of steric hindrance. In fact, the interface between the monomer solution and the initiator solution gradually became blurry and a new zone consisting of the poly(acrylamide) was formed as the polymerization proceeded. The diffusion coeffi- cient of polymers is much lower than those of the monomers and the initial radicals,29 leading to the increase of the hetero- geneity during the polymerization. In Zone 1, a higher mono- mer concentration and a lower free radical concentration were obtained and thus led to produce polymers with longer molec- ular chains. In contrast, a lower monomer concentration and a higher free radical concentration existed in Zone 2, leading to produce the polymers with shorter molecular chains. The inho- mogeneity of various substance concentrations between Zone 1 and Zone 2 in the capillary microreactor may resulted in a broad molecular weight distribution.

Figure 4. Effects of the volumetric flow rate and the residence time on the acrylamide conversion at different residence times (the inner diame- ter of capillary microreactor was 1.016 mm, the polymerization temperature was 408C, and the values of Reynolds number were 12.9, 25.4, 50.8, and 84.7 corresponding to the volumetric flow rates of 0.40, 0.80, 1.58, and 2.62 mL/min).

[Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

AIChE Journal May 2018 Vol. 64, No. 5 Published on behalf of the AIChE DOI 10.1002/aic

above 0.99, indicating that the acrylamide polymerization can be considered to be a pseudo-first order reaction. That is, the polymerization is first order with respect to acrylamide, which was also reported in previous works using a batch reactor for the acrylamide polymerization.23,34 Furthermore, an apparent polymerization rate constant (kapp) was deter- mined as 0.147 min21 through the slope of the fitting line for the flow rate of 2.62 mL/min. These results indicated that a higher mixing rate should be provided to obtain an intrinsic reaction kinetics of the acrylamide polymerization in the capillary microreactor.

Effect of the temperature on the acrylamide polymerization

The reaction temperature can be well controlled in micro- reactors, which is difficult to achieve in batch reactors espe- cially for free radical thermopolymerization. In particular, the temperature will also evidently affect the mixing performance in microreactors for the mixing process driven by molecular diffusion.35

Figure 5. Effect of the volumetric flow rate on apparent polymerization kinetics (the slope values of fitting lines are 0.113, 0.130, 0.137, and 0.147 min21 corresponding to the volumetric flow rates of 0.40 ml/min, 0.80 ml/min, 1.58 ml/min and 2.62 ml/min).

Figure 6 shows the effect of the polymerization temperature (T) on the monomer conversion, Mn and PDI at the volumetric flow rate of 0.5 mL/min. The mixing process in the T- micromixer and the capillary microreactor was mainly domi- nated by molecular diffusion at low Reynolds numbers. Both the molecular diffusion and the collision between the mono- mer molecules and the free radicals were intensified due to the improved molecular motion accelerated by increasing the tem- perature. Thus, the monomer conversion increased with the increase of the temperature (Figure 6A). Whereas, the colli- sion probability between various chain radicals increased at the same time leading to a rapid termination reaction rate. Therefore, the conversion of monomers did not further increase as the temperature was higher than 608C. A maximum conversion of 89.0% could be obtained with the residence time of 12 min in the capillary microreactor. At higher temper- atures, the radicals with short chains may contact and react with each other to form dead polymers before growing into long chain radicals, resulting in the decrease of Mn (Figure 6B). The PDI value increased with rising the temperature. This is attributed to the increasing collision probability between the chain radicals, which enhances the heterogeneity of the polymer products.36,37

[Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

flow pattern in the T-micromixer varied from the stratified flow to the vortex flow. This can be approximately judged from the Reynolds number, whose value was varied from 12.9 to 84.7. Here, the value of Reynolds number was calculated based on the simplified assumption that the fluid properties such as viscosity and density did not change at the early stage of the polymerization. However, the effect of the volumetric flow rate became weaker when the residence time was further prolonged (e.g., t > 5 min). This is because the concentrations of free radicals and monomers deceased as the polymerization proceeded. Conversely, the cage effect became more signifi- cant as the polymerization proceeded.33 Some monomers and free radicals were surrounded by the long polymer chains, which reduced the chain initiation efficiency and the polymeri- zation rate. The relationship between ln ([M]0/[M]t) and the residence time is shown in Figure 5. [M]0 and [M]t represent the initial concentration of acrylamide and the concentration of acryl- amide after a certain residence/reaction time (t), respectively. The linear correlation coefficient (R2) for each fitting line is

Figure 6. (A) Effect of the polymerization temperature on conversion; (B) Effect of polymerization temperature on Mn and PDI (the inner diameter of capillary microreactor was 1.016 mm, the volumetric flow rate was 1.00 mL/min, and the residence time was 12 min).

[Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

DOI 10.1002/aic Published on behalf of the AIChE May 2018 Vol. 64, No. 5 AIChE Journal

Effect of the viscosity on the acrylamide polymerization

Viscosity is one of important physical properties of fluids, which greatly affects the mass transport in liquid systems.38–40

The viscosity of a reaction mixture in the polymerization strongly depends on the concentrations of monomers and pro- duced polymers, the temperature and the molecular weight of polymers.41,42 The viscosity varies largely with the conversion of monomers during the polymerization. Figure 7 shows the viscosity variation of the reaction mixture collected from the capillary microreactor with the monomer conversion at differ- ent temperatures. The concentration of poly(acrylamide) increased with the increase of the monomer conversion as the polymerization proceeded. Some of polymer chains twined around each other leading to the poor mobility of these poly- mer chains. Therefore, the viscosity of the reaction mixture increased with the increase of the conversion. The viscosities at different polymerization temperatures became obvious with the increase of the conversion (e.g., X > 40%). As is well known, the fluid viscosity decreased with the increase of the temperature.43 This was a main reason for the reaction mixture viscosity decrease with increasing temperature in the capillary microreactor. Moreover, Mn is another important factor that affects the viscosity of the solution consisting of polymers. As mentioned before, higher polymerization temperatures led to the decrease of Mn. The friction between the polymers with smaller values of Mn was weaker than that between the polymers with larger values of Mn, resulting in the decrease of the reaction mixture viscosity for higher polymerization temperatures. Figure 8 shows the Mn variation of the polymers collected from the capillary microreactor with the monomer conversion at different temperatures. For all temperatures, the value of Mn decreased with the increase of the monomer conversion. With a low monomer conversion or a short polymerization time, the longer polymer chains were easily formed because the available monomers for the chain propagation were suffi- cient. Both the monomer and initiator concentrations decreased as the polymerization proceeded. Thus, the free

Figure 8. The Mn variation of the polymers collected from the capillary microreactor with the monomer conversion at different tempera- tures (the inner diameter of capillary micro- reactor was 1.016 mm, and the volumetric flow rates was 1.00 mL/min).

[Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

radicals available for the chain initiation and the monomers available for chain propagation deceased, leading to the for- mation of polymers with shorter chains. Therefore, Mn decreased with the increase of the conversion. The viscosity of the reaction mixture increased with the increase of the conversion although Mn decreased as shown in Figures 7 and 8. This was due to the increase in the concentra- tion of poly(acrylamide) during the polymerization. We doubted that the reaction mixture flowing inside the capillary microreactor might transform gradually from the Newtonian fluid to the non-Newtonian fluid during the acrylamide poly- merization. Figure 9A shows the effect of the shear rate on the viscosities of the reaction mixtures from the capillary micro- reactor. With increasing the shear rate, the value of the viscos- ity changed very slightly for different monomer conversions. It indicated that the viscosity was independent of the shear rate. This is one of important characteristics of Newtonian flu- ids.44 As shown in Figure 9B, the ratio of the shear stress to the shear rate was constant for reaction mixtures with various monomer conversions. These results again illustrated that the reaction mixture during the polymerization in the capillary microreactor was maintained as a Newtonian fluid.45 It was attributed to the low molecular weight of the polymers (Mn < 30,000) synthesized in the capillary microreactor. The effect of the viscosity on the acrylamide polymerization can be reflected by the diffusion coefficients of monomers and produced polymers in a more direct way. Wilke-Chang equa- tion provides a theoretical expression for the calculation of diffusion coefficients in liquid phases expressed as Eq. 135

DAB57:4  1028 T ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ uBMB p

gV0:6 A (1)

Figure 7. The viscosity variation of the reaction mixture collected from the capillary microreactor with the monomer conversion at different temper- atures (the inner diameter of capillary micro- reactor was 1.016 mm and the volumetric flow rate was 1.00 mL/min).

where DAB represents the diffusivity of solute A in the solvent B, VA is the molar volume of solute at its normal boiling point (cm3/mol), T is the absolute temperature (K), g is the viscosity of solvent (mPas), uB is a parameter for the molecular associ- ation in the solution, and MB is the molecular mass of the sol- vent (g/mol), respectively.

[Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

AIChE Journal May 2018 Vol. 64, No. 5 Published on behalf of the AIChE DOI 10.1002/aic

Figure 9. (A) Effect of the shear rate on the viscosities of the reaction mixtures from the capillary microreactor, (B) effect of shear rate on the shear stress for reaction mixtures with various monomer conversions.

[Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

The viscosity variation results in the changes of diffusion coefficients, and thus the evaluation of mixing efficiencies during the polymerization in microreactors becomes tricky. With basically understanding the effects of the temperature, the conversion of monomer and the molecular weight of poly (acrylamide) on the viscosity of the reaction mixture (gR), a power function is developed to predict the viscosity of the reaction mixture during the polymerization in the capillary microreactor

the capillary microreactor during the polymerization can be calculated by the Einstein-Smoluchovski equation with con- sidering the flow pattern as a strictly laminar flow22

smix5 d2 i 4D (4)

where the inner diameter of the capillary (di) can be consid- ered as the characteristic mass transport distance. It should be noted that only the transport of monomers is considered during the mixing process in this equation. In fact, the trans- port of monomer radicals and polymers with various chain lengths would affect that of monomers in this polymerization process. The characteristic mixing time (smo) with specific monomer conversion (X) and number-average molecular weight (Mn) can be calculated according to Eqs. 3 and 4

gR5uXETbMnc (2)

where u is the pre-exponential factor, E, b and c are the expo- nents with respect to the monomer conversion, the temperature and the number-average molecular weight, respectively. The regression of the parameters of this model was performed with the software package Matlab R2014b. Next, nonlinear fitting was realized with the least-squares sense solver lsqcurvefit, and then the fitting values of u, e, b, c and R-square were obtained, as shown in Table 1. To evaluate the credibility of these fitting parameters, the experimental and predicted values of the viscosities of the reaction mixtures are compared, as shown in Figure 10. The relative deviations between the experimental and pre- dicted values are found to be within 612%. It can be con- cluded that the above correlation can be used to accurately calculate the reaction mixture viscosity for predicting the dif- fusion coefficients during the acrylamide polymerization in the microreactor under the involved operational conditions. Furthermore, the correlation (Eq. 2) was integrated into Eq. 1 and then the following equation could be obtained for calculating the diffusion coefficient of the monomers (Dmo) in the reaction mixture during polymerization

smo51:0135  105 d2 i X1:2193Mn1:0518V0:6 mo T1:0127 ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ uBMB p (5)

The diffusion coefficient of the polymers (Dpo) can be calcu- lated by the Phillies model46

Dmo52:4667  1024 T1:0127 ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ uBMB p

X1:2193Mn1:0518V0:6 mo (3)

where Vmo is the molar volume of the monomer at its normal boiling point (cm3/mol). With this equation for calculating the diffusion coefficient of monomers in hand, the characteristic mixing time (smix) in

Figure 10. Comparison between the experimental val- ues of the viscosities of the reaction mix- tures versus the predicted values.

Table 1. Simulated Values of u, e, b, c and R-Square

u e b c R-square

0.0003 1.2193 20.0127 1.0518 0.9537

[Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

DOI 10.1002/aic Published on behalf of the AIChE May 2018 Vol. 64, No. 5 AIChE Journal

where cpo is the concentration of polymers, D0 is the diffusion coefficient with the average value of 5 3 10211 (m2s21) in the limit of low concentrations,47 a is the parameter dependent on the polymer molecular weight for macromolecules, and t is the parameter with the value of 1 for polymers with low molecular weight (Mn < 40,000).48

Dpo can be further expressed as the following equation

Dpo5D0 exp 2acA0X ð Þ (7)

According to Eqs. 4 and 7, the characteristic mixing time (spo) of the polymers with various chain lengths in the reaction mix- ture can be deduced, and the result leads to the following equation

spo5 d2 i exp acA0X ð Þ D0 (8)

Figure 11. Effect of the capillary inner diameter on the monomer conversion at a constant resi- dence time of 5 min.

The existence of produced polymers hinders the diffusion of monomers due to its steric effects. Moreover, the monomer radicals with various chain lengths participate in the polymeri- zation process, and its transport can be considered to be simi- lar to that of polymers. The diffusion processes of the monomers, monomer radicals and polymers occurred at the same time once the polymerization was initiated. Considering the mutual effects of the transports of monomers, monomer radicals and polymers, the overall average characteristic mix- ing time (to) is determined by the maximum value of smo and spo. Therefore, the following equation can be obtained

[Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

Moreover, the value of Pe is equal to 2.06 3 105, and the required capillary length is 104.90 m if the homogeneous mix- ing needs to be achieved for such conditions (e.g., X 5 87.7% and T 5 508C). From the above calculation, it illustrated that the produced polymers, the monomer radicals, the monomers that did not participate in the polymerization still could not reach homogenous mixing when they reached the outlet of the capillary microreactor.

to5Max smo; spo   (9)

Effect of the capillary diameter on acrylamide polymerization

According to Eqs. 5 and 8, to increases significantly with the increase of the monomer conversion. To achieve a high mono- mer conversion for the polymerization in the capillary microreac- tor, there would be a challenge that capillaries with rather long lengths should be provided for compromising the overall charac- teristic mixing time with a medium or high throughput. The capillary length required (Lreq) for reaching a homogenous mix- ing condition for polymerization can be deduced as follows49

According to Eq. 9, the overall characteristic mixing time in the capillary microreactor can be shortened by reducing the inner radius of the capillary. Figure 11 shows the effect of the capillary inner diameter on the acrylamide polymerization at a constant residence time. Interestingly, it was found that the monomer conversion was improved with the increase of capil- lary diameter (Figure 11). As is well known, the free radical polymerization of acrylamide is a highly exothermic reaction. The capillary with a smaller inner diameter had a higher heat- transfer rate than the capillary with a larger inner diameter. Therefore, the heat produced in the polymerization could be removed more quickly from the capillary with a smaller inner diameter (e.g., di 5 0.508 mm). In other words, the tempera- ture gradient possibly existed in the capillary with a larger diameter (e.g., di 5 1.548 mm). The schematic diagram of a heat balance analysis for the poly- merization in capillary microreactors is shown in Figure 12. The heat balance equation can be expressed as the following

tres  to (10)

tres5 pLd2 i 4qv (11)

Lreq  di 2 3Pe (12)

where tres is the minimum residence timescale of the reaction mixture in the capillary microreactor and its value should exceed the characteristic mixing timescale for complete mix- ing, and l is the hydraulic diameter of the capillary microreac- tor. The Peclet number (Pe) is defined as49

Qtotal5Qexchanged1Qout (14)

Pe5 ul D 5 udi 2D 5 2qv pDdi (13)

where Qtotal is the total heat released by the polymerization of acrylamide, Qexchanged is the heat removed through the exchange with the capillary wall, and Qout is the heat taken to the outside of the capillary by the flow of the reaction mixture. Qtotal can be expressed as

where u is the average linear velocity of the reaction mixture in the capillary microreactor. In our experiments, the conver- sion of 87.7% could be obtained with the capillary length of 15 m and the inner diameter of 1.016 mm at the residence time of 12 min and the polymerization temperature of 508C. For typical conditions applied, the values of smo and spo were 36.44 min and 84.97 min, respectively. Therefore, the value of to was equal to 84.97 min which was larger than that of tres.

Qtotal5qm 2DH ð ÞcA0XA (15)

where DH is the enthalpy of the polymerization of acrylamide (81.5 kJmol21K21),50 and cA0 is the initial concentration of monomers (1.407 mol/L).

AIChE Journal May 2018 Vol. 64, No. 5 Published on behalf of the AIChE DOI 10.1002/aic

Figure 12. Schematic diagram of a heat balance analy- sis for the polymerization in microreactors.

[Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

Due to the laminar flow characteristics within the capillary microreactor, the convection heat transfer could be neglected. Thus, Qexchanged can be calculated as follows

Figure 13. The calculated values of Bo before/after polymerization.

Qexchanged52pkL T12T2 ð Þ=ln r2=r1 ð Þ (16)

[Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

where k is the thermal conductivity of the capillary with a value of 0.22 Wm21K21,51 T1 is the average temperature on the inner wall surface of the capillary, T2 is the average tem- perature on the outer wall surface of the capillary and its value is considered to be the set temperature of the water bath (508C), and r1/r2 is the outer/inner radius of the capillary, respectively. Qout can be expressed as

DT5T12T2 (20)

These equations (Eqs. 14–20) lead to the following equation for calculating Dt

DT5 qv 2DH ð ÞcA0X

2pkL ln r2=r1 ð Þ 1qvqcp (21)

Qout5qvqcp T42T3 ð Þ (17)

According to the experimental conditions (e.g., qv, r1, and r2) and results (e.g., X), the values of DT can be obtained, as shown in Table 2. As can be seen from Table 2, DT increases with the increase in the inner diameter of the capillary. Although the tempera- ture difference between the outer and inner wall surfaces of the capillary was very small, it indicated that a radial tempera- ture gradient existed inside the capillary microreactor. The radial temperature gradient inside the capillary microreactor with a larger inner diameter was higher than that inside the capillary microreactor with a smaller inner diameter. As dis- cussed above, the flow pattern in the capillary microreactor during the polymerization of acrylamide was laminar. The polymerization firstly occurred at the interface where the monomers and the initiators contacted with each other. The initial interfacial area in the capillary with a larger inner diameter was larger, leading to more hot spots appearing in the interface due to the fact that the polymerization of acryl- amide was highly exothermic. The heat produced from the reaction resulted in the radial temperature gradient and mean- while accelerated the polymerization of acrylamide. There- fore, the capillary microreactor with a larger the inner diameter resulted in a higher monomer conversion. The conversion difference indicated that the concentration gradient was different with the inner diameter variation, which might lead to the flow profile and dispersion effect difference.

where q is the initial density of the reaction mixture, cp is the specific heat capacity of water, T3 and T4 are the temperatures of the reaction mixture at the inlet and outlet of the capillary microreactor, respectively. Here, T3 is considered as the set temperature of the water bath. Two pieces of tubing immersed inside the water bath for introducing the initiator and acrylam- ide solutions into the capillary microreactor through the T-micromixer were long enough for the heat exchange. Thus, the temperatures for the initiator and acrylamide solutions at the T-micromixer could reach the set temperature of the water bath. T4 is considered as the average temperature on the inner wall surface of the capillary. After traveling along the capil- lary with a long distance, the temperature of the reaction mix- ture can be supposed to be the same as the average temperature on the inner wall surface of the capillary. There- fore, the following equation can be obtained

T42T35T12T2 (18)

Equation 17 can be further transformed as the following

Qout5qvqcp T12T2 ð Þ (19)

The temperature difference between T1 and T2 is defined as DT

Table 2. List of the Temperature Difference Between the Outer and Inner Wall Surfaces of the Capillary Under Different Conditions

Table 3. List of Parameters with Different di in the Polymerization Process

No. di (mm) L (m) Lfull SL (m2) D0

No. di (mm) do (mm) L(m) X DT (8C)

0.508 1.588 10.0 0.677 0.085 0.762 1.588 11.8 0.690 0.126 1.016 1.588 10.0 0.707 0.138 1.548 3.175 5.10 0.742 0.553

0.508 10.0 1.458 0.051 0.006 0.762 11.8 3.870 0.090 0.020 1.016 10.0 5.831 0.102 0.025 1.548 5.1 6.902 — —

DOI 10.1002/aic Published on behalf of the AIChE May 2018 Vol. 64, No. 5 AIChE Journal

1.548 mm indicating that deviations from plug flow were enhanced and the dispersion effect could not be ignored. The value of Bo decreased at the outlet of the microreactor com- paring with that at the inlet of the microreactor because of the decrease of the diffusion coefficient. That is, the deviations from plug flow increased gradually with the polymerization proceeding. The Taylor dispersion coefficient can be further expressed as the following

D05 S2 L 4/Dat2 5 uLd2 i 4/Dat (23)

where SL is defined as the area of the maximum quadrate cross-section along the axial direction in the channel (SL5Ldi). As illustrated by Eq. 23, a larger diffusion coeffi- cient, a longer residence time, a smaller inner diameter and a longer length of the capillary are beneficial for eliminating the dispersion effect. For experiments, the capillary length was accordingly shortened when the capillary diameter became larger to maintain a constant residence time in various capil- lary microreactors. D0 is a quadratic function of di, indicating that the sensitivity of the dispersion effect to di is higher com- pared to L. It should be noted that the aforementioned disper- sion model is based on an assumption that the channel length is long enough to achieve fully developed flow.21 The guide- line for its application is presented as

Figure 14. Effect of the capillary inner diameter on Mn and PDI at a constant residence time of 5 min.

[Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

Microreactors are typically described as plug flow reactors. However, the plug flow in a channel is only valid when the radial diffusion is much faster than convective mass transport along the channel length.21,52 The Bodenstein number (Bo) in a dispersion model, provided by Taylor and Aris,21,53,54

describes the ratio of convection to dispersion and provides a general mothed to estimate the deviation from plug flow

Lfull di  0:04 udi Da (24)

Bo5 uL D0 5 4/Dat d2 i (22)

where Lfull is the channel length needed for a fully developed flow. In our experiments, capillary microreactors with various diameters and lengths were applied for the polymerization, and thus the proper application of the Taylor dispersion model was evaluated. For the capillary with 1.548 mm inner diame- ter, the value of L was smaller than that of Lfull, indicating that the flow had not fully develop in the polymerization. Accord- ing to experimental conditions, the value of D0 with different di was calculated according to Eq. 23 and listed in Table 3. As shown in Figure 14, the value of Mn increased and the value of PDI decreased with reducing the capillary inner diam- eter. The capillary with a smaller inner diameter provided a shorter diffusion distance for the transport process, which was beneficial for obtaining higher mixing efficiencies in compari- son with the capillary with a larger inner diameter. Moreover, the dispersion effect became more remarkable in the capillary microreactor with a larger inner diameter (see Table 3), which

Here, the diffusion coefficient Da is represented by the average diffusion coefficient of monomers in the reaction mixture con- cerning the beginning and end of the polymerization, which can be calculated from Eq. 1. D0 is the Taylor dispersion coef- ficient which typically is equal to the axial diffusivity in small-scale flow systems. The parameter / is related to the channel geometry, which is 48 for channels with circular cross-sections. Small deviations from plug flow can be seen in flow systems with Bo > 100, while large deviations from plug flow can be observed with Bo < 100. To investigate the flow profile variation with di, the value of Bo was calculated and the results are shown in Figure 13. Bo decreased with enlarging di. For the initial reaction mixture, Bo > 100 when di was 0.508 mm or 0.762 mm revealing that small deviations from plug flow existed and the dispersion effect was limited. While Bo < 100 when di was 1.016 mm or

Figure 15. Schematic diagram of the microreactor system with a pre-mixing stage and a polymerization stage for synthesizing poly(acrylamide).

[Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

AIChE Journal May 2018 Vol. 64, No. 5 Published on behalf of the AIChE DOI 10.1002/aic

of chains with the different lengths. However, the values of PDI for this case with theoretically complete mixing was still much larger than 1, which were close to those for the free radi- cal polymerization of butyl acrylate in microreactors per- formed by Iwasaki and Yoshida.60 This was mainly attributed to the characteristics of free radical polymerization in solution. The heterogeneity of the solution can be minimized by the pre-mixing strategy. However, it cannot be totally eliminated because the chain propagation is still not well controlled dur- ing the polymerization resulting in large values of PDI of the produced polymers.

Conclusions

The influence of mixing performance on the nonliving free radical polymerization of acrylamide in capillary microreac- tors was investigated. The mixing process during the polymer- ization in the capillary microreactor was analyzed according to the flow characteristics. A higher flow rate was beneficial for improving the mixing between the initiators and the mono- mers and thus the polymerization rate. A higher temperature was also found to improve the mixing performance and the monomer conversion in the polymerization. However, higher polymerization temperatures led to lower values of Mn and larger values of PDI. The measurement on the viscosity of the reaction mixture with different monomer conversions at vari- ous temperatures was conducted. The viscosity of the reaction mixture significantly increased with the increase of the mono- mer conversion. Nevertheless, the reaction mixture in the capillary microreactor during the polymerization still belonged to the Newtonian fluid because of the low molecular weight of the produced poly(acrylamide). Both diffusion coefficients of the monomers and the polymers were correlated with the monomer conversion, the viscosity of the reaction mixture during the polymerization. With the diffusion coefficients of the monomers and the polymers in hand, the average charac- teristic mixing time in the capillary microreactor during the polymerization was further deduced with considering the mutual effects of the transports of monomers, monomer radi- cals, and polymers. The monomer conversion of 87.0% could be obtained with the capillary length of 15 m at the residence time of 12 min and the reaction temperature of 508C. How- ever, the produced polymers and the residual monomers still could not achieve homogenous mixing in the capillary micro- reactor according to the calculation of the characteristic mix- ing time. The monomer conversion was improved with the increase of the capillary diameter. A heat balance for the polymeriza- tion in the capillary microreactor was analyzed to explain the effect of the capillary diameter on the polymerization perfor- mance. The radial temperature heterogeneity became higher and more hot spots existed inside the capillary microreactor with a larger inner diameter, leading to a higher monomer con- version. Moreover, the flow profile estimation indicated that the deviations from plug flow increased with enlarging the capillary diameter and with the polymerization proceeding according to the calculation of the Bodenstein number. The dispersion effect indicated by the Taylor dispersion coefficient aggravated the inhomogeneity of the reaction condition in capillary microreactors, which was more significant in the microreactor with a larger inner diameter. Thus, poly(acryl- amide) synthesized in the capillary microreactor with a smaller inner diameter led to larger values of Mn and lower values of PDI than those in the capillary microreactor with a

Figure 16. Effect of the pre-mixing time on Mn and PDI (the inner diameter of capillary microreactor was 1.016 mm, the polymerization tempera- ture was 508C, the volumetric flow rate was 1.00 ml/min, and the polymerization time was 7 min).

[Color figure can be viewed at wileyonlinelibrary.com]

further enhanced the inhomogeneity of the reaction condition for the polymerization, leading to a decrease of Mn and an increase of PDI.

Effect of premixing time on acrylamide polymerization

Mass transport phenomena are rather complex during the polymerization, and this complexity is possibly further aggra- vated by the variation of rheological property.42,55,56 Most of free radical polymerization processes are kinetically fast, and whether they are mixing-controlled systems strongly depends on reactors and operational conditions.57,58 As shown in our experimental results, the effect of insufficient mixing on the polymerization is not trivial, and its elimination should be paid enough attention even the polymerization is conducted in microreactors. Currently, this was also reported by other researchers.59

A pre-mixing stage with a long capillary was added before the reaction stage to minimize the effect of insufficient mixing on the acrylamide polymerization, as shown in Figure 15. It should be noted that the temperature was set to 108C to avoid any polymerization in the premixing process of the initiator solution and the monomer solution. The polymerization only occurred in the reaction stage at higher temperatures. The pre- mixing was driven by the molecular diffusion and the reaction mixture in this stage could be considered as the Newtonian fluid. Therefore, the characteristic mixing time can be calcu- lated by Eq. 4. The values of diffusion coefficient and charac- teristic mixing time in the capillary for the pre-mixing stage were, respectively, determined to be 6.221 3 10206 cm2s21

and 6.7 min at 108C. Figure 16 shows the variations of Mn and PDI with different pre-mixing times. As the premixing time increased, the mixing between the monomers and the initiators tended to be completed. A longer premixing time was benefi- cial for both the increase of Mn and the decrease of PDI. In the case of the pre-mixing time longer than the characteristic mixing time, the mixing between the monomers and the initia- tors should theoretically be completed. This should result in the formation of homogeneous polymers with long chains. On the contrary, incomplete mixing would lead to the formation

DOI 10.1002/aic Published on behalf of the AIChE May 2018 Vol. 64, No. 5 AIChE Journal

21. Nagy KD, Shen B, Jamison TF, Jensen KF. Mixing and dispersion in small-scale flow systems. Org Process Res Dev. 2012;16(5):976–981. 22. Su Y, Straathof NJ, Hessel V, No€el T. Photochemical transforma- tions accelerated in continuous-flow reactors: basic concepts and applications. Chem A Eur J. 2014;20(34):10562–10589. 23. Mino G, Kaizerman S, Rasmussen E. The polymerization of acryl- amide initiated by ceric nitrate-3-chloro-1-propanol redox systems. J Polym Sci. 1959;38(134):393–401. 24. Erbil C, Soydan AB, Arogˇuz AZ, Sarac¸ AS. The free-radical poly- merization of acrylamide initiated with ceric sulfate in the presence of amino acids. Angew Makromol Chem. 1993;213(1):55–63. 25. Emery O, Lalot T, Brigodiot M, Marechal E. Free-radical polymeri- zation of acrylamide by horseradish peroxidase-mediated initiation. J Polym Sci A Polym Chem. 1997;35(15):3331–3333. 26. Goto A, Fukuda T. Kinetics of living radical polymerization. Prog Polym Sci. 2004;29(4):329–385. 27. Tsuda Y. A tracer study of the persulfate–bisulfite-catalyzed poly- merization of acrylonitrile. J Appl Polym Sci. 1961;5(13):104–107. 28. Giz A, C¸atalgil-Giz H, Alb A, Brousseau J-L, Reed WF. Kinetics and mechanisms of acrylamide polymerization from absolute, online monitoring of polymerization reaction. Macromolecules. 2001;34(5): 1180–1191. 29. Liu Z, Lu Y, Yang B, Luo G. Controllable preparation of poly(butyl acrylate) by suspension polymerization in a coaxial capillary micro- reactor. Ind Eng Chem Res. 2011;50(21):11853–11862. 30. Kockmann N, Kiefer T, Engler M, Woias P. Convective mixing and chemical reactions in microchannels with high flow rates. Sens Actuators B Chem. 2006;117(2):495–508. 31. Hessel V, L€owe H, Sch€onfeld F. Micromixers—a review on passive and active mixing principles. Chem Eng Sci. 2005;60(8–9):2479–2501. 32. Engler M, Kockmann N, Kiefer T, Woias P. Numerical and experi- mental investigations on liquid mixing in static micromixers. Chem Eng J. 2004;101(1–3):315–322. 33. Achilias DS, Kiparissides C. Development of a general mathematical framework for modeling diffusion-controlled free-radical polymeriza- tion reactions. Macromolecules. 1992;25(14):3739–3750. 34. Higuchi M, Senju R. Kinetic aspects of the alkaline hydrolysis of poly(acrylamide). Polym J. 1972;3(3):370–377. 35. Wilke CR, Chang P. Correlation of diffusion coefficients in dilute solutions. AIChE J. 1955;1(2):264–270. 36. Wang W, Zhang MJ, Chu LY. Functional polymeric microparticles engineered from controllable microfluidic emulsions. Acc Chem Res. 2014;47(2):373–384. 37. Park JI, Saffari A, Kumar S, G€unther A, Kumacheva E. Microfluidic synthesis of polymer and inorganic particulate materials. Annu Rev Mater Res. 2010;40(1):415–443. 38. Su Y, Chen G, Yuan Q. Effect of viscosity on the hydrodynamics of liquid processes in microchannels. Chem Eng Technol. 2014;37(3): 427–434. 39. Plais C, Augier F. Effect of liquid viscosity on mixing times in bub- ble columns. Theor Found Chem Eng. 2016;50(6):969–974. 40. Yang K, Chu G, Shao L, Xiang Y, Zhang L, Chen J. Micromixing efficiency of viscous media in micro-channel reactor. Chin J Chem Eng. 2009;17(4):546–551. 41. Pogrebnyak VG, Toryanik AI. Viscosity of polymer solutions. Polym Sci USSR. 1979;21(4):990–995. 42. Mehta KN, Sood S. Transient free convection flow with temperature dependent viscosity in a fluid saturated porous medium. Int J Eng Sci. 1992;30(8):1083–1087. 43. Utracki LA. Temperature and pressure dependence of liquid viscos- ity. Can J Chem Eng. 1983;61(5):753–758. 44. Brown D, Jones PN, Middleton JC. Experimental Methods. In: Paul EL, Atiemo-Obeng VA, Kresta SM, editors. Handbook of Industrial Mixing: Science and Practice. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 2004:149–150. 45. Metzner AB, Otto RE. Agitation of non-Newtonian fluids. AIChE J. 1957;3(1):3–10. 46. Masaro L, Zhu XX. Physical models of diffusion for polymer solu- tions, gels and solids. Prog Polym Sci. 1999;24(5):731–775. 47. Phillies GDJ. Universal scaling equation for self-diffusion by macromolecules in solution. Macromolecules. 1986;19(9):2367– 2376. 48. Phillies GDJ. Dynamics of polymers in concentrated solutions: the universal scaling equation derived. Macromolecules. 1987;20(3): 558–564. 49. Ober TJ, Foresti D, Lewis JA. Active mixing of complex fluids at the microscale. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA. 2015;112(40):12293–12298.

Acknowledgment

We would like to acknowledge financial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 21676164 and 21706157) and China Postdoctoral Science Foundation (2017M611565).

Literature Cited

1. Gemoets HP, Su Y, Shang M, Hessel V, Luque R, No€el T. Liquid phase oxidation chemistry in continuous-flow microreactors. Chem Soc Rev. 2016;45(1):83–117. 2. Su Y, Hessel V, No€el T. A compact photomicroreactor design for kinetic studies of gas-liquid photocatalytic transformations. AIChE J. 2015;61(7):2215–2227. 3. Plouffe P, Roberge DM, Macchi A. Liquid–liquid flow regimes and mass transfer in various micro-reactors. Chem Eng J. 2016;300:9–19. 4. Tonhauser C, Natalello A, L€owe H, Frey H. Microflow technology in polymer synthesis. Macromolecules. 2012;45(24):9551–9570. 5. Bally F, Serra CA, Hessel V, Hadziioannou G. Micromixer-assisted polymerization processes. Chem Eng Sci. 2011;66(7):1449–1462. 6. Serra CA, Chang Z. Microfluidic-assisted synthesis of polymer par- ticles. Chem Eng Technol. 2008;31(8):1099–1115. 7. Bally F, Serra CA, Hessel V, Hadziioannou G. Homogeneous poly- merization: benefits brought by microprocess technologies to the synthesis and production of polymers. Macromol React Eng. 2010; 4(9–10):543–561. 8. Vandenbergh J, de Moraes Ogawa T, Junkers T. Precision synthesis of acrylate multiblock copolymers from consecutive microreactor RAFT polymerizations. J Polym Sci A Polym Chem. 2013;51(11): 2366–2374. 9. Vandenbergh J, Tura T, Baeten E, Junkers T. Polymer end group modifications and polymer conjugations via "click" chemistry employing microreactor technology. J Polym Sci A Polym Chem. 2014;52(9):1263–1274. 10. Rosenfeld C, Serra C, Brochon C, Hessel V, Hadziioannou G. Use of micromixers to control the molecular weight distribution in con- tinuous two-stage nitroxide-mediated copolymerizations. Chem Eng J. 2008;135:242–246. 11. Wurm F, Wilms D, Klos J, L€owe H, Frey H. Carbanions on tap – Living anionic polymerization in a microstructured reactor. Macro- mol Chem Phys. 2008;209(11):1106–1114. 12. Wang W, Zhang M-J, Xie R, Ju X-J, Yang C, Mou C-L, Weitz DA, Chu L-Y. Hole-shell microparticles from controllably evolved double emulsions. Angew Chem Int Ed Engl. 2013;52(31):8084–8087. 13. Hornung CH, Guerrero-Sanchez C, Brasholz M, Saubern S, Chiefari J, Moad G, Rizzardo E, Thang SH. Controlled RAFT Polymerization in a Continuous Flow Microreactor. Org Process Res Dev. 2011; 15(3):593–601. 14. Iwasaki T, Kawano N, Yoshida J. Radical polymerization using microflow system: numbering-up of microreactors and continuous operation. Org Process Res Dev. 2006;10(6):1126–1131. 15. Su Y, Chen G, Yuan Q. Influence of hydrodynamics on liquid mixing during Taylor flow in a microchannel. AIChE J. 2012;58(6):1660–1670. 16. Su Y, Lautenschleger A, Chen G, Kenig EY. A numerical study on liquid mixing in multichannel micromixers. Ind Eng Chem Res. 2014;53(1):390–401. 17. Su Y, Chen G, Kenig EY. An experimental study on the numbering- up of microchannels for liquid mixing. Lab Chip. 2015;15(1):179–187. 18. Li X, Mastan E, Wang W-J, Li B-G, Zhu S. Progress in reactor engineering of controlled radical polymerization: a comprehensive review. React Chem Eng. 2016;1(1):23–59. 19. Wang K, Zhang J, Zheng C, Dong C, Lu Y, Luo G. A consecutive microreactor system for the synthesis of caprolactam with high selectivity. AIChE J. 2015;61(6):1959–1967. 20. Liu S, Chang CH. High rate convergent synthesis and deposition of polyamide dendrimers using a continuous-flow microreactor. Chem Eng Technol. 2007;30(3):334–340.

AIChE Journal May 2018 Vol. 64, No. 5 Published on behalf of the AIChE DOI 10.1002/aic

50. Hernandez-Barajas J, Hunkeler DJ. Inverse-emulsion polymerization of acrylamide using block copolymeric surfactants: mechanism, kinetics and modelling. Polymer. 1997;38(2):437–447. 51. Moses D, Orth T, Mueller P, El-Dessouky H. Characteristics of novel polymer composite heat transfer tubes. Presented to the 11th International Conference on Heat Transfer, Fluid Mechanics and Thermodynamics, South Africa, 20-23 July 2015. 52. No€el T, Su Y, Hessel V. Beyond Organometallic Flow Chemistry: The Principles Behind the Use of Continuous-Flow Reactors for Syn- thesis. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2015:1–41. 53. Taylor G. Dispersion of soluble matter in solvent flowing slowly through a tube. Proc R Soc Lond. 1953;219(1137):186–203. 54. Aris R. On the dispersion of a solute in a fluid flowing through a tube. Proc R Soc A Math Phys Eng Sci. 1956;235(1200):67–77. 55. Nomura M, Suzuki H, Tokunaga H, Fujita K. Mass transfer effects in emulsion polymerization systems. I. Diffusional behavior of chain transfer agents in the emulsion polymerization of styrene. J Appl Polym Sci. 1994;51(1):21–31.

56. Kittilsen P, McKenna TF, Svendsen H, Jakobsen HA, Fredriksen SB. The interaction between mass transfer effects and morphology in heterogeneous olefin polymerization. Chem Eng Sci. 2001;56(13): 4015–4028. 57. Villermaux J, Falk L. A generalized mixing model for initial contacting of reactive fluids. Chem Eng Sci. 1994;49(24):5127– 5140. 58. Meier GB, Weickert G, van Swaaij WPM. FBR for catalytic propyl- ene polymerization: Controlled mixing and reactor modeling. AIChE J. 2002;48(6):1268–1283. 59. Qiu L, Wang K, Zhu S, Lu Y, Luo G. Kinetics study of acrylic acid polymerization with a microreactor platform. Chem Eng J. 2016; 284:233–239. 60. Iwasaki T, Yoshida J. Free radical polymerization in microreactors. Significant improvement in molecular weight distribution control. Macromolecules. 2005;38(4):1159–1163.

Manuscript received May 12, 2017, and revision received Oct. 27, 2017.

DOI 10.1002/aic Published on behalf of the AIChE May 2018 Vol. 64, No. 5 AIChE Journal