obtained at the stirring rate of 1500 rpm and the concentration of the initial clear p-nitroaniline solution of 1.0 mol/L. The Influence of Each Parameter on Continuous Synthesis. Flow Rate. The influence of the total flow rate on the yield of the diazotization reaction was studied. As shown in Figure 7, the increase of the total flow rate promoted the yield of the diazotization reaction, and when the total flow rate exceeded 40 mL/min, the yield reached its plateau. On the one hand, the increase of the flow rate was conducive to the rapid mixing of the two streams in the micromixer. On the other hand, a higher flow rate brought a higher Re number, which means that the greater the disturbance of the fluid in the delay loop, that can delay the sedimentation of particles and facilitate the flow reaction. On this basis, we carried out all the subsequent experiments at a total flow rate of 40 mL/min. Temperature. Figure 8 showed that the reaction rate of diazotization was significantly affected by the reaction temperature. When the temperature was raised from −5 to 5

Solution C. Sodium 6-hydroxynaphthalene-2-sulfonate (10.88 g, 0.0442 mol) and sodium hydroxide (8.68 g, 0.217 mol) were dissolved in deionized water (500 mL) in a 1 L beaker. Owing to the changes of the concentration of reactants in different experiments, the above preparation process was a typical case. Experimental Procedure of the Continuous Flow Process. As shown in Figure 2, solution A was carried to the micromixer by a plunger pump (SZWEICO, 2PB3020IV). Since solution B was a slurry, it was carried to the micromixer by a diaphragm pump (Prominent, GMXA2504). The micromixer was a micropore dispersion microreactor (home- made15,22−24). A delay loop tube (PTFE, 3.0 mm inner diameter, 4.0 mm outer diameter) was connected to the outlet of the micromixer. Both the microreactor and delay loop tube were submerged in the cold trap to control the reaction temperature. To analyze samples, a certain amount of the reaction solution from the outlet was directly added to the excess coupling component (solution C, 10 mL) to capture diazo ions and quench the diazotization reaction. The concentration of the generated azo dye was quantified by UV−vis spectroscopy.17,25 Based on the quantitative relation- ship between the concentration of the diazonium salts and the azo dyes, the yield of the diazotization reaction could be obtained (see the Supporting Information for details). ■RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

Continuous-Flow Diazotization of Weakly Basic Aromatic Amines in a Microreaction System

■CONCLUSION In summary, we have developed an efficient continuous-flow microreaction system to conduct a diazotization reaction of weakly basic aromatic amines. A typical case of diazotization of p-nitroaniline was studied systematically. Through the optimization of the crystallization process of p-nitroaniline, the slurries with an average crystal size of about 56 μm in length and 19 μm in width were obtained, which has relatively good suspension performance. A continuous diazotization reaction with low solid content can be achieved in a simple continuous-flow microreaction system without using other means. The effects of various parameters (flow rate, temper- ature, reagent dosage, and concentration) on the reaction yield were investigated. In view of the situation that slurries with high solid content are easily settled and solid−liquid mass transfer is blocked, the gas−liquid Taylor flow and ultrasonic assisted methods are introduced to further strengthen the circulation in the liquid column. Finally, only a residence time of 94 s in the delay loop at 5 °C was employed to produce diazonium salt in 96% yield with high process stability. Compared to the traditional batch production (1−2 h, ∼90%), the developed continuous-flow diazotization shows a great prospect in industrial application. ■ASSOCIATED CONTENT * sı Supporting Information The Supporting Information is available free of charge at https://pubs.acs.org/doi/10.1021/acs.iecr.3c00337. Quantitative analysis method of the diazonium salt; the measurement method of apparent sedimentation veloc- ity (PDF) Video S1, the ultrasound assistance in the delay loop (AVI) ■AUTHOR INFORMATION Corresponding Authors

Introduction of Assistant Techniques. In order to solve the problems of particle agglomeration and channel blockage, we took two measures in this section: the gas−liquid−solid Taylor flow and ultrasound assistance. The gas−liquid−solid Taylor flow has been introduced to address the limitations of microreactors that involved solids. The liquid recirculation flow pattern can suspend, transport, and mix solid particles in the liquid slugs, reducing the risk of clogging.27−29 In our case, as the pressure fluctuation of the solid containing system was relatively large, the introduction of gas through differential pressure by the flow controller was prone to large nonuniformity, which easily leads to instability of the actual gas−liquid reaction process. Considering that the reaction is carried out under strong acidic conditions, a certain amount of NaHCO3 was added to solution A, and the corresponding amount of HCl was added to solution B, so that carbon dioxide can be released when two streams were mixed. It was observed that the reaction liquid flow was segmented by a gas column (Figure 12), which was helpful to strengthen internal recirculation, reduce pressure drop, and minimize back-mixing. The result in Figure 13 showed that in the case of

Figure 7. Influence of the total flow rate on the yield. Reaction conditions: 0 °C, p-nitroaniline/NaNO2/HCl (mole ratio) = 1:1.2:4.0, c(p-nitroaniline) in solution B = 0.1 mol/L, residence time = 60 s.

Figure 10. Influence of concentration on the yield. Reaction conditions: 5 °C, p-nitroaniline/NaNO2/HCl (mole ratio) = 1:1.1:4.0, total flow rate = 40 mL/min, residence time = 60 s.

Figure 9. Influence of sodium nitrite on the yield. Reaction conditions: 5 °C, p-nitroaniline/HCl (mole ratio) = 1:4.0, c(p- nitroaniline) in solution B = 0.1 mol/L, total flow rate = 40 mL/min, residence time = 60 s.

Figure 8. Influence of temperature on the yield. Reaction conditions: p-nitroaniline/NaNO2/HCl (mole ratio) = 1:1.2:4.0, c(p-nitroaniline) in solution B = 0.1 mol/L, total flow rate = 40 mL/min.

Figure 2. Schematic of the microreaction system.

