3.3.1. Effect of flow rate on the conversion It is well known that the Re is proportional to the flow rate. Increasing the Re is the primary method to enhance the mass transfer performance of the reactor. Therefore, it is necessary to examine the effect of the flow rate on the reaction conversion rate. As shown in Fig. 10 (a), the effect of flow rate on conversion was examined under the same residence time conditions. The conversion rate showed a trend of increasing and then stabilizing with the increase in flow rate, which may be because the nitration reaction of TFB is a liquid-liquid heterogeneous reaction system. The reaction mainly occurs at the interface of two phases, and the mass transfer between the two phases primarily relies on molecular diffusion at the flow rate range of 10 mL/min to 30 mL/min. With the increase in flow rate, the secondary flow was generated, and a dispersed flow pattern was formed, which increased the specific boundary area, enhanced the mass transfer, and improved the conver- sion rate [42]. When the flow rate reached 50 mL/min, simply increasing the flow rate did not further improve the conversion rate. In enhanced mixing and mass transfer processes, higher mixing and mass transfer efficiency is usually accompanied by an increase in energy consumption or pressure drop [43]. As can be seen in Fig. 10 (b), the pressure drop (Δp) increases with the flow rate, from 0.5 MPa to 1.8 MPa in the flow rate of 10 ~ 60 mL/min, but the upper-pressure drop limit of the pump is 2 MPa. Therefore, the pressure drop cannot be ignored when optimizing the effect of flow rate on conversion. Fig. 10 (c) shows the flow rate's effect on the KLa at the same residence time. As the flow rate increases, the KLa increases. This is due to the increase in flow rate, which intensifies the mixing effect and increases the surface renewal rate of the mixing system, leading to an increase in KLa. In our previous work, we simulated the mixing state of liquid-liquid heterogeneous two-phase flow at different flow rates by CFD [44]. The CFD calculations of two-phase flow photographs was shown in Supplementary materials Fig. S5.

where τ (min) is the reaction residence time, and VR (mL) is the total volume of the reaction zone. Qor and Qw (mL/min) are the volume flow rate of the TFB solution and mixed acid solution, respectively. The initial concentration of species A can be calculated with Eq. (2):

Microreactors are becoming an important tool for rapid exothermic chemical reaction process intensification and continuous flow chemistry. This work focuses on the process intensification and kinetics of the tri- fluoromethylbenzen nitration in microreactors. The reaction of trifluoromethylbenzene with mixed acid is a typical liquid-liquid heterogeneous reaction, so the mass transfer is the rate-determining step. Two strategies of microreaction systems were established to enhance mass transfer, respectively. Firstly, a scheme for intensifying the nitration reaction process in a capillary microreactor was proposed. The results showed that the conversion was low and could not achieve the expected results. Finally, a Heart-type micromixer with barriers was used to improve the mixing and mass transfer performance. The effects of molar ratio, temperature, sulfuric acid con- centration, flow rate, and residence time on the conversion were investigated. The results showed that the residence time was significantly reduced from 4 hours in the batch reactor to 30 s in the Heart-type micromixer. The volume mass transfer coefficient and space-time yield were up to 0.031 s−1 and 16053.55 g⋅cm−3⋅h−1, respectively. Meanwhile, to better understand and control the nitration reaction process, the kinetics of the nitration of trifluoromethylbenzene was reported for the first time in a capillary microreactor, and all kinetic data were obtained.

High-performance gas chromatography (Bruker 450-GC; column: AESE-54; 30 m × 0.32 mm × 0.5 µm) was used to analyze the product selectivity. The column temperature was maintained at 70 ◦C for 2 min, then increased to 280 ◦C by 15 ◦C/min, and held for 5 min. The injector and FID detector temperatures were both set to 300 ◦C. The nitrogen flow rate as the carrier gas was 1.0 mL/min with a split ratio of 30:1. Calculated product concentration using the area normalization method. The theoretical reaction residence time is calculated by Eq. (1):

where a is effective interfacial area (m2/m3), ε is phase hold-up, dp is the number-average drop size over the entire plate (m). Under the condition of constant phase content, the interfacial area increases with the decrease in droplet size. Therefore, due to the slow nitration reaction rate of TFB, a longer residence time is required to achieve a higher conversion rate in the T microreactor. However, due to the high mass transfer rate of the microreactor, only a short residence time is required to achieve a high conversion rate, while commercial-scale production can be achieved by increasing the reaction temperature and connecting the reactors in se- ries while keeping the overall mass transfer coefficient constant.

and usually require high energy consumption for operation. In contrast to active microreactors, passive microreactors have neither complex dynamic components nor external energy introduction. It mainly relies on optimizing the geometry of microchannels to enhance the mass transfer between liquid-liquid phases at the microscale [24]. Plouffe investigated the mass transfer effect of five different structures of passive microreactors and examined the impact of other two-phase systems and operating conditions on the total volume mass transfer coefficient [25]. The results show that contraction-expansion and obstacle-based micro-mixers are better suited for fast liquid-liquid reactions. Due to the improved transport properties of the microreactor, it is possible to accurately control the reaction process parameters and obtain experi- mental data on the intrinsic reaction kinetics more efficiently [26]. Song et al. studied the kinetics of 4-MNT nitration using a homogeneous re- action in the continuous-flow microreactor. The results show that the reaction rate highly depends on the H2SO4 strength and temperature and established a complete kinetic model [27]. Yan et al. provided a comprehensive summary of recent research advances in reaction ki- netics determined by microreactors [28]. For nitration reactions, rapid heat transfer and precise control of reaction times within seconds facilitate kinetic measurements of fast, highly exothermic reactions. In summary, microreactor technology not only improves the safety and selectivity of chemical synthesis compared to the traditional batch reactors but also significantly increases the process efficiency or product (space-time) yield due to a large number of (internal and external) mass transfer enhancements. However, the synthesis and accurate kinetic data of the nitration reaction of TFB in microreactor systems have not been reported. This work investigated the nitration reaction of TFB in mixed acid. Two microreactor systems and a kinetic model were developed to describe this reaction. The effects of reaction temperature, molar ratio, residence time, sulfuric acid concentration, and volumetric mass trans- fer coefficient on the conversion were investigated separately. Compared with the batch reactor, a high reaction rate, high conversion rate, and short reaction time were achieved in a Heart-type micromixer.

2.2.1. Nitration of TFB in the T-micromixer The experimental setup of the continuous flow system used in this work was shown in Fig. 1. Solution 1 (TFB) and solution 2 (HNO3/ H2SO4) were fed separately using two high-precision piston pumps (Sanotac-MPF0502C, Shanghai, China; flow rate, 0-100.00 mL/min; pressure range, 0-4 MPa). In order to ensure that the temperature of solutions 1 and 2 was the same as the reaction temperature, it is necessary to reach a preset temperature in a coiled capillary tube 1 m long, respectively. These two streams were mixed in the T-mixer (SST 316L) with a diameter of 3.3 mm. After thorough mixing, the nitration reaction occurred in the subsequent capillary tube (PTFE) with a diameter of 1 mm. The residence time was obtained by changing the flow rate or extending the capillary length. The final mixture was quenched by an aqueous solution via a high-precision piston pump C at the outlet of the microreactor. All capillaries were immersed in a water bath to ensure the same temperature.

where nA is the amount of substance; Qor and Qw are the flow rate of the organic phase and mixed acid, respectively. Space-time yield (η, g⋅cm−3⋅h−1) is another important parameter to evaluate the reactor performance. It is calculated by Eq. (3).

actors. At 100 % TFB conversion, the Heart-type micromixer's residence time was significantly shorter than the batch reactor, only 0.5 min. At the same time, the molar ratio was substantially lower. The sulfuric acid consumption in the microreactor is greatly reduced by 3.5 times. The space-time yield in the microreactor is two orders of magnitude higher than in batch reactors.

microchannel was shown in Supplementary materials Fig. S4. Fig. 3 shows the effect of the residence time, temperature, and concentration of H2SO4 on conversion under the total flow rate is 20 mL/min. The results showed that the conversion of TFB increased with the increase in reaction temperature and sulfuric acid concentration under the same reaction conditions. The TFB conversion was positively correlated with the residence time within 0 - 30 s. The increasing temperature acceler- ated the effective collision between the reactants in the reaction system. It is well known that the attack of NO2 + on the aromatic compounds is the rate-determining step in the nitration reaction [19]. NO2 + concentration is related to the concentration of H2SO4 [33]. Under the same experi- mental parameters, the conversion increased with the increase in sul- furic acid concentration. According to Scheme 1, with the extension of the residence time, the water generated by the nitration reaction grad- ually increases. Water dilutes the sulfuric acid concentration and re- duces the nitration capacity, so the conversion rate should increase slowly. However, a slow trend of increasing conversion is not seen in Fig. 3, which may be because the capillary microreactor is not long enough.

3.1.2. Effect of molar ratio on conversion The effects of molar ratio on conversion were investigated at the temperature of 20 ◦C, the flow rate of 20 mL/min, and the residence time of 28 s. It can be seen in Fig. 4 that the conversion of TFB increases with an increasing molar ratio. This is reasonable because a higher molar ratio means an increased proportion of sulfuric acid and nitric acid at the same total flow rate, both of which favor the production of NO2 + and promote the reaction rate.

the excellent mixing of the two phases in the microreactor, the high mass transfer rate, and the fact that TFNB is more difficult to nitrify the re- action further. Compared to Fig. 3, the conversion rate significantly increased from 22 % to 52.8 % at the N/S value is 0.78. This result in- dicates that the passive microreactor achieves the objective of enhanced

tion of TFB and successfully improved the mixing, mass transfer, and reaction performance of the mixed acid nitration system. First, the volumetric mass transfer coefficient in the Heart-type micromixer was over 15 times that in a T-micromixer. Second, sulfuric acid consumption is significantly reduced by 3.5 times that in a batch reactor. The space time yield in the Heart-type micromixer is two orders of magnitude higher than in the batch reactor. Third, under optimal conditions, the TFB conversion can reach 100 % in the residence time is only 30 s. The experimental results showed better mixing performance and mass transfer of the Heart-type micromixer. Subsequently, an intrinsic mechanics model was developed in the capillary T-microreactor to describe the reaction. The kinetics of TFB nitration data was first reported. The activation energy of TFB nitration is 86.33 kJ/mol. This work demonstrated that microreactor technology could provide a promising TFB nitration platform and a reference value for large-scale industrial production.

Based on the analysis of the above experimental results, it is clear that the sulfuric acid concentration significantly affects the conversion according to the intrinsic kinetics of nitration. The mass transfer rate increases as sulfuric acid strength increases in the liquid-liquid hetero- geneous reaction system. However, the conversion of TFB in micro- reactors is related to the mass transfer performance and residence time [39]. As shown in Fig. 3, the conversion of TFB in the T-micromixer is low at 86 % ~ 91 % sulfuric acid concentrations. Therefore, considering the high throughput and energy consumption of production in practical applications, the use of enhanced mass transfer is the most economical way to increase the TFB conversion rate. A passive microreactor was chosen in this work, as shown in Fig. 2. The barrier in the microchannel structure can break the stable laminar flow, form secondary flow, and enhance the internal circulation of liquid to increase the specific surface area and surface renewal rate to improve mass transfer [40,41].

Dynamic viscosity of TFB 0.647 × 10−3 pa/s Dynamic viscosity of mixed acid 15.61 × 10−3 pa/s dH (Heart-type micromixer) 1.1379 × 10−3 m Inlet diameter (T-micromixer) 1 × 10−3 m Flow rate (Heart-type micromixer) 10-60 mL/min Flow rate (T-micromixer) 2-20 mL/min Interfacial tension 0.0511 kg/s2

Reactor type Volume (cm3) Molar ratio Residence time (min) Conversion (%) STC; η (g⋅cm−3⋅h−1)

where Re for the Heart-type micromixer was estimated based on di- mensions and velocity at the inlet of the heart shape, dH is equivalent diameter of the microchannel inlet. TFB and mixed acid were used in our experiments as the immiscible liquid−liquid system with the properties shown in Table 1. In this work, the Re of T-microreactor and Heart-type micromixer based on superficial velocities ranged from 8.57 to 85.77 and from 24.66 to 148, respec- tively. The results show that the flow state in both reactors is laminar. The range of Ca for the conditions studied here varies from 0.006 to 0.067 in the T-microreactor and varies from 0.019 to 0.12 in the Heart type microreactor, which reflects a larger contribution of surface tension to the droplet formation.

3.1.1. Effect of the residence time, temperature, and H2SO4 concentration on conversion The establishment of the nitration in the T-micromixer system has been described in previous work [32]. The photographs of flow in the

where F0 TFB is the initial mass flow rate of TFB, g/min; X is the conversion of TFB, VR is the reactor volume, cm3; MTFNB and MTFB are molecular weights of TFNB and TFB, whose values are 191.107 g/mol and 146.11 g/mol, respectively.

3.4. Comparison of the batch reactor, T-micromixer, and Heart-type micromixer