Compared with traditional nitration method, the continuous nitra­ tion process using microchannel reactors has series of advantages. However, the channel size of microchannel reactors is generally concentrated in the range of micron to submillimeter, which generates shortcomings such as small reaction flux and channel blockage. When blockage occurs, the pressure in the microchannel reactor will increase rapidly, which may lead to safety issues. These problems can be solved by scaling up the microchannel reactor to a certain extent. Researchers generally mention that microchannel reactors have two scaling strate­ gies, numbering-up and sizing-up [26]. When increasing the number of channels, that is, the numbering-up strategy, is used to expand pro­ duction capacity, the cost of equipment manufacturing and control is high. It greatly limits the potential application of this strategy in in­ dustry. If the channel size is expanded to the millimeter level while ensuring the fluid flow characteristics, micro-scale mixing performance and safety performance as much as possible, the size can be enlarged like the traditional tank reactor, thereby promoting the industrialization of the microreactor. Furthermore, the exothermic behavior of the process is necessary to be studied as a reference for production and scale-up.

According to the data, compared to the semi-batch reactor, the space time yield of microchannel reactor has improved by almost two orders of magnitude. The annual production also increased significantly as the microchannel reactor was scaled up. Compared to the space-time yield of 1.36 g⋅L−1⋅s−1 obtained by Fu et al. in a mesoscale flow reactor with a quarter-inch internal diameter [16], the space-time yield in this work is nearly two to three times as high. Also, the space-time yield obtained in this work are substantially improved compared to the study of Chen and Xu et al. [43,45]. However, compared to the above literature, there is still room for improvement in the annual production obtained in this work, so that subsequent process scale-up on a larger scale can be carried out while ensuring process safety.

In this study, two different microchannel reactors were assembled and toluene nitration was investigated in the microchannel reactor using HNO3-AC2O. The effects of temperature (T), molar ratio of nitric acid to toluene (molar ratio, MR), mass fraction of acetic anhydride in the mixed acid (ω), and residence time (τ) on the nitration were investi­ gated. And response surface methodology was used to optimize the process. Subsequently, the optimized process was scaled up through the sizing-up strategy and the effect of volumetric flow rate was studied. It is considered that the inherent safety of the microchannel reactor will

microchannel reactor 2 c

microchannel reactor 1 a

a Data from optimized process. b Isoperibolic mode. c Volumetric flow rate= 18 mL⋅min−1. d A working year of 3000 h.

3.3. Scale-up in the microchannel reactor

favorable to improve the mixing of the two phases at the T-shaped micromixer. A smaller droplet size facilitates an increase in the inter­ facial area between the two phases [30], which in turn improves the mass transfer performance and conversion. The method used in this work to enhance mass transfer is to increase the volumetric flow rate. In addition, the mass transfer performance can be enhanced by using S-shaped channel, static mixer, ultrasonic, microwave, etc.

2.2.3. Scale-up in the microchannel reactor

Based on the temperature data measured by the thermocouples, it showed that the maximum temperature in reaction channel occurred at the T-shaped micromixer. The temperature of the reactants gradually decreased with the flow and heat transfer, and eventually basically reached stability. Fig. 13 illustrates the maximum temperature at the micromixer at different volumetric flow rates. There was a positive correlation between the temperature and the volumetric flow rate. The maximum temperature reached 30.9 ◦C at a volumetric flow rate of 18 mL⋅min-1. Compared to the semi-batch mode, the continuous flow mode exhibits lower overtemperature even at larger dosing rate. At the selected volumetric flow rate, the lower overtemperature is not suffi­ cient to achieve the temperature requirement for dinitration. Therefore, dinitration did not occur in the reactor. Although the overtemperature measured in this work is relatively low, it is still possible to reduce the overtemperature during the reaction process by adopting methods such as multi-stage temperature control and changing the reactor structure, thereby reducing possible safety issues.

