after the microchannel cavity of reactants which can realize the continuous flow reaction and chemical production. The characteristic size of the internal channel is generally between 10 and 1000 μm, therefore, the low flow velocity can maintain a laminar flow, and the large specific surface area facilitates the high heat and mass transfer efficiency, avoiding local overheating (Masoni et al., 2023). The dead-zone-free microchannel design minimizes the axial back-mixing, precisely regulating the reactant residence time, and inhibiting the occurrence of side reactions to the greatest extent (Karaghiosoff et al., 2023). Moreover, due to the milliliter-level holdup volume in a single reaction channel, it has significant advantages in dealing with high-risk reactions and improving intrinsic safety (Zhan et al., 2023). Moreover, the potential in heat and mass transfer enhancement of microreactors made them suitable for fluidization of catalyst solid particles (Latifi et al., 2014), adsorption bed (Grabowska et al., 2018; Grabowska et al., 2021a; Grabowska et al., 2021b; Krzywanski et al., 2021; Krzywanski et al., 2023; Kulakowska et al., 2020; Sosnowski et al., 2018), and the porous media (Grabowska et al., 2021a; Krzywanski, 2019) in reactors. In recent years, many microfluidic systems have been built to achieve the process intensification and to obtain the reaction kinetic models of various nitrification reactions, such as p-Nitrotoluene (Song et al., 2022), nitrobenzene (Jin et al., 2023), o-xylene (Guo et al., 2023b), trifluoromethylbenzen (Guo et al., 2023a), and chlorobenzene(Cui et al., 2022), etc. Scholars have proposed a variety of structures to enhance reactant mixing and mass transfer. Many novel structures have been reported, T-shaped (Masoni et al., 2023), capillary-shaped (Zhan et al.,

frequently used configuration although the energy consumption is extremely high, and cause adverse consequence for production amplification. Meanwhile, the reaction channels and heat supply side channels of the zigzag-shaped microreactor of internal numbering-up type are identical semicircular cross-sections of radius 0.75 mm, and the zigzag angle is 30. The liquid holdup volume and cross-section areas on two sides are the same and the countercurrent flow arrangement can obtain larger heat exchange capacity and thus better energy saving effect. Therefore, to explores the influences of channel structures, reaction conditions, and operation process parameters on MNT and NCB prepa­ ration, the heart-shaped and the diamond-shaped microreactors have the co-flow arrangement with unequal liquid holdup volume and cross section areas, and the zigzag-shaped microreactor has a countercurrent flow arrangement with an identical liquid holdup volume and cross section areas for two sides. The sheet layout and physical drawings of the microreactors are depicted in Fig. 3. The total holdups of three microreactors are 6.74, 6.65, and 6.82 mL respectively. The chemical reaction sheet (side A) and the heat transfer sheet (side B) are stacked into a "BAB" double banking layout to ensure better temperature control for each microreactor. For the test apparatus,

3.2. The mixing and mass transfer mechanisms in three microreactors

In this study, three Hastelloy microreactors with different geomet­ rical characteristics, namely the heart-shaped, the diamond-shaped, and the zigzag-shaped reaction channels are designed and fabricated. The channel structures for the three microreactors are illustrated in Fig. 2. The dimension of each reaction sheet is 270 mm × 150 mm (length × width), and each sheet consists of three series reaction units, for the heart-shaped and the diamond-shaped, the minimum flow regions are rectangle cross-sections of 1.5 mm × 0.75 mm. For the heart-shaped microreactor, each microcavity is partly occupied by cylindrical and arc-cylindrical solid metal obstacles and uniformly distributed in a sin­ gle pass through the reactant-side inlets and outlets, likewise, the diamond-shaped microreactor is partly occupied by staggered diamond shaped obstacles of inconsistent sizes. For the heat transfer side chan­ nels, heart-shaped and diamond-shaped microreactors are rectangular channels with a width × height of 10 mm×1.5 mm, which is much larger than the reaction side in liquid holdup volume and cross-section areas, and the overall serpentine co-flow arrangement is the most

the three microreactors are in a parallel layout. The experimental test system for TOL and CB nitrification is equip­ ped with two PTFE metering pumps, PTFE connection pipes, a high and low-temperature circulation device, a thermal oil gear pump, and a quenching and sampling module. The diagram and the picture of the microreactor test apparatus part are shown in Fig. 4. The general experimental procedure is as follows: Wait until the thermal oil of the heat transfer side is heated to the preset temperature, open the inlet stop valve of the microreactor to be tested, and pump aromatic and mixed acid solution into the microreactor for mixing and reaction, after at least 5 times the residence time and the system is stable, sampling and drop it into the sample bottle pre-filled with a mixture of water and ethyl acetate which was placed in an ice-water mixture bath, and after 5 minutes of magnetic stirring, stationary for 10 minutes until the aqueous phase and the organic phase is completely stratified. During the test procedure, the flow rates of thermal oil on the heat transfer side of the microreactors are adjusted to the maximum by the gear pump and valves, for the heart-shaped and diamond-shaped microreactors, the flow rates of thermal oil are 550 L/h, for the zigzag-shaped microreactor, the flow rate is 155 L/h.

heart-shaped, diamond-shaped, and zigzag-shaped microreactors, are designed and fabricated, effects of temperature, residence time, and molar ratio, on TOL and CB nitrification are investigated, and the orthogonal experiments are further conducted to determine the opti­ mum reaction conditions. Due to the excellent heat transfer performance and temperature control property of microreactors, the channel structures, residence time τ, have little effect on the isomer molar ratio of MNT and NCB, which demonstrate satisfying suppression of the side reactions. At relatively higher temperatures and molar ratios, the counter flow and identical microchannel configuration of both sides for the zigzag shaped microreactor has the maximum temperature difference, which means the substantial occurrence of side reactions and byproducts. For the TOL nitrification of heart-shaped, diamond-shaped, and zigzag-shaped microreactors, the optimum process conditions are ob­ tained at reaction temperatures of 70 ◦C, 80 ◦C, and 70 ◦C, residence times of 70 s, 60 s, and 70 s, molar ratios of 1.0:1.2:1.8, 1.0:1.3:1.8, and 1.0:1.4:1.8, respectively. For the CB nitrification, the optimum process conditions are obtained at reaction temperatures of 90 ◦C, 80 ◦C, and 80 ◦C, residence times of 60 s, 50 s, and 70 s, molar ratios of 1.0:1.2:2.0, 1.0:1.1:2.0, and 1.0:1.0:2.0, respectively. For the optimum yield of the MNT, the heart-shaped microreactor has the highest value of 91.49, followed by the diamond-shaped and the zigzag-shaped microreactors, which is 89.91 and 89.81 respectively; For the NCB preparation, the highest yield of 93.95 is obtained by the heart shaped microreactor, and the yields of the diamond-shaped and the zigzag-shaped microreactors are 91.51 and 88.25, respectively.

The mixing and mass transfer mechanisms of Aromatic nitrification which has been extensively investigated and reported in previous liter­ ature(Cox, 1971; Song et al., 2022). The liquid-liquid two-phase nitri­ fication reaction of TOL and CB occurs in the mixed acid phase, therefore, the interphase mass transfer effect determines the reaction rate of the nitrification process. The channel dimensions of the micro­ reactors are in submillimeter magnitude, and the viscosity of the acid phase is high. For the flat micro-channel, the flow pattern is laminar flow with a low Reynolds number, and the mass transfer mainly depends on molecular diffusion, and the residence time required for complete mixing is long, consequently, the chemical reaction effect is unsatisfy­ ing. When a heart-shaped or diamond-shaped reaction channel is used, the organic phase and the mixed acid phase constantly collide with

the three microreactors. As can be inferred from Fig. 5a, the τ has a positive effect on the X for three microreactors, which is consistent with that observed by (Jin et al., 2023; Yang et al., 2022a), and the heart-shaped and diamond-shaped microreactors are superior to the zigzag-shaped microreactor for the comparison of Xs. Moreover, in the range of 60–70 s, the rate of variation decreases for the heart-shaped and diamond-shaped microreactors, and the maximum X under the process parameters is around 85 %. For the zigzag-shaped microreactor, there exists an optimal X of 76.6 % at the residence time of 50 s. For the MNT isomers selectivity S, due to the excellent heat transfer performance and temperature control property of microreactors, the channel structures have little effect on the molar ratio of the o-MNT, the m-MNT, and the p-MNT, and from the MNT selectivity results in Fig. 5b, the microreactors demonstrate satisfying suppression of the side re­ actions and the generation of dinitrotoluence (DNT), the average MNT isomers selectivity S is around 90 %, and the percentages of the o-MNT, the m-MNT, and the p-MNT are 56 %, 4 %, and 40 %, respectively. The optimal residence time range is 40–60 s. For the NCB preparation, the reaction temperature T is set as 60 ◦C, the chlorobenzene-nitric-sulfur molar ratio is fixed at 1:1.2:2.0, and the residence time τ is kept at the 30 s, 40 s, 50 s, 60 s, 70 s, respectively. Fig. 6 shows the chlorobenzene conversion rate and NCB isomer selec­ tivity under different residence time τs. and the sort from best to worst is the heart-shaped microreactor, the diamond-shaped microreactor, and

conditions and test numbers are shown in Table 1. The orthogonal optimization experiments are carried out for the three microreactors. Through the orthogonal experimental results and mean value anal­ ysis of the MNT and NCB selectivity, the optimum process conditions of the three microreactors are listed in Table 2. According to the above results, the MNT/NCB preparation perfor­ mance and repeatability verification tests are conducted under the op­ timum process conditions of microreactors, and the consistency is satisfying after multiple samplings. The average results are shown in Table 3. As can be seen from Table 3a, for the yield of the MNT, the heart shaped microreactor has the highest value of 91.49, followed by the diamond-shaped and the zigzag-shaped microreactors, which is 89.91 and 89.81 respectively, and the differences in performance are not obvious, the TOL conversion rates are 100 % for the former two reactors. For the NCB preparation, the highest yield of 93.95 is obtained by the heart-shaped microreactor, and the yields of the diamond-shaped and the zigzag-shaped microreactors are 91.51 and 88.25, respectively.

Table 3 The optimum MNT/NCB preparation performance for three microreactors.

